The
China Biographical Database

User’s Guide

Michael A. Fuller

Revised Version .
July , 
© China Biographical Database Project: Harvard University, Academia Sinica, Peking University

Preface to the User’s Guide
Peter K. Bol
The China Biographical Database, as a relational database, can generate biographical
data in response to simple queries (who came from a certain place?) and to far more
complex queries (what were the social and kinship connections among all those who
entered government through the civil service examination from a certain place within a
certain span of years?). Users can query CBDB through an online database (follow the
links on the CBDB website, https://projects.iq.harvard.edu/cbdb. Users also can
download the entire database, together with query forms and utilities for exporting data
for network and spatial analysis, from the CBDB website and explore the database on
any computer with Microsoft Access. We also oﬀer a SQLite format database for
quantitative researchers and Mac users. This User’s Guide explains the structure and
application for the downloadable, stand-alone database.
CBDB is a relational database. It categorizes and codes many diﬀerent aspects of the life
histories of men and women in China’s past. In using it, there are several
considerations that one should bear in mind when reading the Users’ Guide’s
presentation of the speciﬁc details of the database, its design, and its use.
A way of thinking about people in context. CBDB is a way of modeling life histories; it
is also a way of thinking about how to organize information. The subject of the
database is people in society, but we treat people as entities that have relationships to
their kin and their social associations, to places where they resided and worked, to times
when they lived and moments when they acted, to names they were given and adopted,
to books they wrote, to ways in which they entered government or other institutions,
and to the modes in which they distinguished themselves from others. In contrast to
the narrative of a life, CBDB sees people as entities deﬁned by webs of relationships
that can be quantiﬁed and analyzed.
Temporal scope. Over ninety percent of CBDB data pertains to the period from the
Tang dynasty (-) into the early th c. As of this writing ,  it had data on
about , ﬁgures with well over , more in preparation; further data on
ﬁgures already in the database are frequently added. Tables and trees of place names
and oﬃcial titles will need to be expanded as we incorporate ﬁgures from earlier
periods.
Factoids versus facts. Like prosopographical databases for other parts of the world,
CBDB for the most part deals in “factoids,” the assertions of a fact (such as “Su Shi was
a person from Meishan”) found in the historical sources it references. It relates these
assertions, including contradictory assertions when they appear, rather than judging
their reliability. However, it does not treat all sources as equal.

i

The CBDB User’s Guide

ii

Principal sources. CBDB began with research conducted by the late Robert Hartwell
focused on the middle period of China’s history. Since then, it has been
comprehensively incorporating data from published indices, such as Wang Deyi’s
revised Index to Biographical Sources for Song Figures and similar works; from online
databases, such as the Name Authority Database of the Ming Qing Archive at Academia
Sinica, the Tang Knowledge Base at Kyoto University and the Ming Qing Women’s
Writings Database directed by Grace Fong at McGill University; from studies of text
sources such as collections of epitaphs (墓誌銘); from listings of local oﬃcials in local
gazetteers and records of appointments; and from biographies in formal dynastic
sources. Although CBDB editors at Harvard and Peking University are experimenting
with mining data from other sources, it will take some time before the principal sources
are exhausted.
Text-mining. The most eﬃcient way to populate CBDB has been through the use of
computational text-mining techniques to cull factoids from searchable digital texts that
have been provided by the Institute of History and Philology at Academia Sinica or
generated by the CBDB project itself. This began in collaboration with computer
scientists on an US National Endowment for the Humanities grant. The Harvard
editorial team, led ﬁrst by Professor Song Chen and then Dr. Shih-pei Chen and
currently by Mr. Hongsu Wang, who has had the assistance of Dr. Lik Hang Tsui, Mr.
Merrick Lex Berman, and Ms Edith Enright has overseen the development of “regular
expressions” appropriate to Chinese sources and the process of incorporating new data.
The Peking University editorial team reviews the marked-up text, and the managers
then oversee the ﬁnal coding of the data for inclusion in CBDB. This process does not
guarantee that all possible factoids are discovered, simply that that those included will
accurately reﬂect the sources being mined.
Margin of error. Machines are more reliable than humans in sifting through large
quantities of data but are incapable of interpretation and scholarly judgment. Errors can
enter the database. The historical sources themselves can be incorrect. Editors may miss
mistakes in tagging. Encoders may fail to properly disambiguate two entities with the
same name. A user must always ask if the query to the database produces enough
examples to ensure that the margin of error will not undermine conﬁdence in the
conclusions that are drawn. The discrepancies between the sources and the original
CBDB data were signiﬁcant, and considerable time was spent correcting the received
data; with the adoption of computational techniques the discrepancies appear to be less
than one percent. To put this in perspective: an argument based on  examples of
which ten are faulty is better than a ﬁnding based on ten examples of which one is
erroneous.
A database is not a dictionary. CBDB can be used as a guide to biographical factoids
about an individual, and it can provide more data about some aspects of a person’s
connections than would be found in a biographical dictionary. However, the standard

The CBDB User’s Guide

iii

for a dictionary is complete accuracy in all aspects, whereas the expectation for a
database is that the cases discovered will be useful because they are extensive in range
and number.
CBDB is a joint project of the Center for Research on Ancient Chinese History at
Peking University, the Institute of History and Philology at Academia Sinica, and the
Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies at Harvard University. At Harvard it is housed in
the Institute for Quantitative Social Sciences which provides administrative support. It
is guided by a steering committee that includes scholars and collaborators from across
the globe. Michael A. Fuller, the author of this User’s has designed all iterations of the
database.
Since  CBDB has been supported by grants from Harvard University Faculty of
Arts and Science and the Harvard University Asia Center, the Institute of History and
Philology at Academia Sinica, the Center for Research on Ancient Chinese History at
Peking University, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Tang Research
Foundation, the Tang Studies Society, the Henry Luce Foundation, the Chiang Chingkuo Foundation, the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, the
bequest of the late Robert Hartwell to the Harvard-Yenching Institute, and signiﬁcant
support from a licensing arrangement with ChineseAll.com. In China CBDB data,
supplemented with extensive biographical data on twentieth century ﬁgures, is available
through subscription to the Yinde System https://www.inindex.cn provided by
ChineseAll.com. Over the years many scholars have visited Harvard and contributed to
the project, all participants are recognized on the CBDB website
This User’s Guide explains the logic of CBDB as a relational database, the structure of
its contents, the primary query interfaces for getting data from the database, and
installation procedures for diﬀerent operating systems. Please also consult Appendix D
of the User’s Guide for a summary of the most recent changes to the database and to
the user interface.

iv

The CBDB User’s Guide

Table of Contents
i

Preface



Introduction



Chapter 1: Relational Databases



A.

Relational Database and the Organization of Complex Data

B.

Rules for Structuring Data in a Relational Database

C.

Relational Databases and the Interactions of Complex Data

Chapter 2: The Structure of CBDB
A.

An Overview of the Entities in the Database

B.

Details of Entities

Summary of Tables in CBDB






Chapter 3: CBDB Tools for Analysis
A.

The Navigation Pane

B.

The Browser

C.

Query by Method of Entry

D.

Query Associations

E.

Query Oﬃce Holding

F.

Query Kinship

G.

Query Social Networks

H.

Query Pair-wise Association

I.

Query Place Association

J.

Query Status

K.

Query Texts and Roles

L.

Looking up Data on a Group of Individuals

Chapter 4: Advanced Query Techniques
A.

Kinship Networks for Jinshi-degree Holders in Putian

B.

Using the Access Query Designer

Appendices
A.

Installing the MS Access Files

v

The CBDB User’s Guide

B.

Updating the Visual Basic Environment

C.

Installing the SQLite CBDB Database on a Mac

D.

Kinship Simpliﬁcation Table

D.

Change Log for CBDB

Introduction
The China Biographical Database (CBDB) is a relational database of biographical
information for China before the early twentieth century. Through the wide range of
data it collects, CBDB oﬀers many ways to examine the lives of past individuals and
groups. While CBDB provides detailed information about people and can serve as a
biographical dictionary, its more powerful use is as a tool for prosopography, the study of
the lives of groups of people:
‘Prosopography’ is the investigation of the common background
characteristics of a group of actors in history by means of a collective study of
their lives. The method employed is to establish a universe to be studied, and
then to ask a set of uniform questions – about birth and death, marriage and
family, social origins and inherited economic position, place of residence,
education, amount and source of personal wealth, occupation, religion,
experience of oﬃce and so on. The various types of information about the
individuals in the universe are then juxtaposed and combined, and are
examined for signiﬁcant variables. They are tested both for internal
correlations and for correlations with other forms of behaviour or action. (L.
Stone, 'Prosopography', in F. Gilbert and S. Graubard eds., Historical Studies
Today (New York, )
CBDB also supports a second approach to analyzing the lives of large numbers of
people. Social network analysis (SNA) has been a tool for studying group structure in
the social sciences for many decades. Scholars, however, also have applied its
techniques to data derived from historical documents. Charles Wetherell describes the
project of historical social network analysis (HSNA):
Conceptualizing community as collections of personal relationships …
provides historians with a blueprint for evaluating when, how and why people
in the past used kin and non-kin in the course of their lives. The ﬁndings of
social network analysts that people need and seek emotional and economic
support of diﬀerent kinds, from diﬀerent kinds of people, suggest new
analytical imperatives. It is not enough now to look solely at how people used
kin in times of crisis. Rather, historians need to pursue how people in the past
used the kin and friends they had, for diﬀerent things, throughout the life
course, and in the context of the opportunities they enjoyed and the
constraints they faced courtesy of demography and culture. Other approaches
might be applied to the problem, but HSNA contains the essential
perspectives that cannot only advance the debate, but also help historians to
meet Tilly's challenge to connect the lives of ordinary people to large-scale
change in meaningful ways. (Charles Wetherell, “Historical Social Network
Analysis,” International Review of Social History  [], Supplement)

i

The CBDB User’s Guide



In large measure, historians have used SNA approaches on small sample populations
where the relations among all the member of the group are known, but CBDB hopes
to provide data on relations among individuals in very large populations where the
density of relationship data is adequate to produce statistically meaningful results about
patterns in the social world of China’s past.
Because CBDB records information about where people lived, where they
studied, where they served in oﬃce, what oﬃces they held, who their parents were,
who they married, and who they knew, all these aspects of life can be correlated for
very large groups of people. We can ask if local marriage alliance were typical during a
particular period or in a particular region, or for a particular level of oﬃce-holder or
occupation. We can ask about kinship patterns within occupations for any slice of time
and/or any region of China. We can look at regional patterns of sponsorship or partisan
opposition. We can look at social, kinship and regional factors in promotions within
the Buddhist monastic orders. We can ask who associated themselves with certain
ideologues and teachers and where they lived. There is almost no limit to the types of
questions that can be asked about the people in the database.
The challenge is how to phrase the questions in ways to which CBDB can
respond. The goal of this User’s Guide is to provide you with enough information
about CBDB, ﬁrst, to use its interface for common types of queries and then to use
other tools for more advanced queries of the dataset. Information about CBDB divides
into three parts: general information about relational databases, the structure of CBDB
in particular (the types of data it contains), and the interface for looking at the data in
CBDB.

Chapter . Relational Databases
A. Relational Database and the Organization of Complex Data
The social historian Robert Hartwell (-), who was concerned with the
kinship and social networks of Song Dynasty oﬃcials, ﬁrst conceived of using a
relational database to study collective biographies, and CBDB evolved out of his initial
model.
Hartwell’s important step was to see that he needed a powerful organizing tool
to meet the challenges of the project he proposed. He wanted to look at relations
between people, their kinship groups, their social networks, the oﬃces they held, and
the places with which they were associated. This is a long list, and the interactions
between all of these elements grow complex and diﬃcult to track. Hartwell realized
that he could think of the interactions he saw in biographical data as relations between
() people, () places, () a bureaucratic system, () kinship structures and ()
contemporary modes of social association. He built a relational database precisely to
capture biographical data as the relations between these ﬁve “things.” In the current
version of CBDB that grew out of Hartwell’s model, we have added three more aspects
of social experience through which individuals deﬁned themselves: () social
institutions like temples, academies, etc., () cultural systems for attaining social
distinction, and () the vast webs of textual production.
This structuring of relationships between entities, categories of “things” in the
world, is what a relational database does: it allows one to capture multiform relations
between complex objects that interact with one another. That is, PLACE is an entity,
and under this category we can list any and all places about which we have information
and in which we are interested. Similarly, under PEOPLE as yet another entity, we list
all the people about whom we have biographical information. Then we can list all the
interactions we care to record between people and places: where they were born,
where they moved, where they were buried, and so on. We have the abstract model of
relations between entities:

People

Places

Places in People’s Lives





Chapter : Relational Databases

This abstract model, when transformed into a relational database, becomes a series of
tables ﬁlled with data divided into ﬁelds:
PEOPLE
ID

Name



Lü Benzhong 呂本中

An Dun 安惇 
Chao Buzhi 晁補之

Chen Jian() ﬂ. 
陳薦





Dates

PEOPLE-PLACES

PLACES

Person Place
ID
ID



Relation
Type ID


ID Place Name


Jinhua 金華



Shouzhou 壽州



Kaifeng 開封













PEOPLE-PLACE
TYPES
Relation
Type ID



Relation
Type
Basic
Aﬃliation
Moved to



Ancestral addr

Note that with this arrangement of tables, there is no limit to the number of people, the
number of places, or the number of types of relations between people and places.
From this example of how people and place relate to one another, we see that in
relational databases there are three basic types of tables:
. Tables that describe the basic “entities.” (The yellow tables “People” and “Places”
above) In CBDB, these include people, places, kinship term, bureaucratic structures, and so
on. The ﬁelds in these tables capture the attributes of these entities that we want to know
about. For people, this would include their names, birth and death dates, gender, and the like.
For places (“addresses” in CBDB parlance) it would include names, the administrative levels
(county, prefecture, etc.), when they were created, and so on.
. Tables that describe relations between basic entities. (The blue “People-Places”
table) In CBDB, these translate the relations between people and their social, physical, and
cultural environment into a structured format. The ﬁelds in these tables capture the features
of the relations that are considered important in describing the relationship. For instance,
when a person receives a posting to serve in a bureaucratic oﬃce, in addition to the basic
information of who the person was and what the oﬃce was, we also would like to know ()
where the post was, () if the person in fact served, and () when he served. Other types of
entities, however, also have important and often complex relations with one another. For
PLACES, for example, it would include its superior or subordinate units, and the period of
validity of those relations. For OFFICES, a key relationship is where the oﬃce ﬁts into the
administrative hierarchy at any particular time.

Chapter : Relational Databases



. Tables that describe the types of relations between entities. (The pink “People-Place
types” table.) Sometimes, there can be many ways for two “things” to interact in the world,
and we need to be able to be more speciﬁc in recording the details of the interaction. In the
example above, people can have many diﬀerent ways of being related to a place: it might be the
place at which they were formally registered, the place at which they actually lived, or the place
where they were buried. We can group these relations into categories to give them structure.

B. Rules for Structuring Data in a Relational Database
In databases, we try to record any particular datum only once. In the example above,
the name Lü Benzhong 呂本中 appears in only one record in CBDB, in his basic entry in the
table for PEOPLE entities (the table is called BIOG_MAIN). All other records that record
information about Lü Benzhong refer to him by his ID number. Thus, if, for example, I
mistakenly entered the name Hong Shi for 洪适 (properly romanized as Hong Kuo) because I
thought that the second character was the simpliﬁed form of shi 適, I would need to ﬁx the
mistake in only one place. This principle of “one datum, one place” is called normalization.
There are occasions where CBDB violates this rule in order to speed processing, but if you
wish to add additional tables to your own version of CBDB, we strongly recommend that you
pay attention to the goal of maintaining a normalized database.
In the example of a person’s relationship to places discussed above, we encounter the
fact that a person can move to many diﬀerent places. This is called a “one-to-many”
relationship. If one were to try to represent this relationship through a simple table with rows
and columns, we either could create a number of columns in the basic biographical table
(“Moved to ”, “Moved to ”, and so on), or we could add all entries into a single cell. If we
create several columns for “Moved to,” we cannot be sure that we will not encounter an
individual who moved so many times that it exceeds the number of columns we created.
Moreover, every single record in the biographical table would have all of the “Moved to” cells,
which would remain empty for most people. If one were to create just one column for
“Moved to” information, searching through the entries in the cell for each individual would
make retrieving the data very diﬃcult. The disadvantages of these two approaches to keeping
the “Moved to” data in the main table leads to the general rule: whenever we ﬁnd this sort of
one-to-many relationship between basic entities (here, PEOPLE and PLACES), we need a
separate category of relationship like PEOPLE-PLACES (and a table to represent that
relationship) to allow us to capture the interaction.
We encounter a diﬀerent type of problem when we encode a book like Record of Things
at Hand, which was edited by Zhu Xi and Lü Zuqian. Writings have a so-called “many-tomany” relationship: one book may have many authors or editors, and each of those writers
may have written many books. In CBDB, as in many databases, we treat this situation as a pair
of one-to-many relations between PEOPLE and WRITINGS and introduce a new category of
relationship (and corresponding table), PEOPLE-WRITINGS, to capture the data.
These three rules—normalize data, create new tables for one-to-many relations, and
treat many-to-many like one-to-many—are important if you wish to add new data types to
CBDB.



Chapter : Relational Databases

C. Relational Databases and the Interactions of Complex Data
CBDB models the interactions between people and the entities—the “things”—that shape
their social world. Some of these entities are easily understood in their “thingness:” places are
physical entities, and the oﬃcial bureaucracy has a substantial structure in premodern Chinese
society. Kinship is a bit more diﬃcult to conceive. Anthropologists have long considered the
kinship relations in a society as a structured system: some kinship ties are particularly strong,
and societies are organized around these ties. People, that is, are not simply related to one
another: their relationship is part of—and acquires meaning through—the kinship system of
the society. “Social relations” as a “thing” is yet more abstract but follows the same principles.
If one wants to establish a social relation with another person, the society sets out patterns of
what relations are appropriate and signiﬁcant and what relations are not. Within the system of
associations that a society values, “social capital” measures how one has positioned oneself in
this network of associations. The categories that CBDB has created for both kinship and social
relations reﬂect the particular systems of signiﬁcant distinctions we have encountered as we
explore the legacy of information on individuals in premodern China. CBDB, as a relational
database, then allows users to explore the interactions between these entities in the lives of
groups of individuals. For example, consider the following set of entities and their relations
with the basic entity PEOPLE:
Places

Social Relations
People-Places

People-Social Relations

People
People-Kinship

Kinship

People-Oﬃce

Oﬃce

Although there is no direct link between KINSHIP and OFFICE, we still can explore the
relation between them through the data we have accumulated about people. We can ask
questions like “Was the role of medical oﬃcer hereditary, that is, were medical oﬃcers the sons
or nephews of medical oﬃcers, and did the families of medical oﬃcers marry their children to
one another?” What about men who held mid-level military ranks: were those who moved
into civil posts likely to marry daughters of men who held civil posts?



Chapter : Relational Databases

Places

Social Relations

People-Places

People-Social Relations

People
People-Kinship

People-Oﬃce

Oﬃce

Kinship

Querying the Relationship between OFFICE and KINSHIP
We can ask many, many questions about the relation of OFFICE and KINSHIP. Were there
diﬀerent patterns of marriage within rank for high civil oﬃcials and lower-ranking oﬃcials?
Did these group form marriage alliances that created diﬀerent strata? Did these patterns
change over time? We can ask similar sorts of questions about PLACE and SOCIAL
RELATIONS. Were people from Sichuan, for example, forming local connections, or did
they establish empire-wide networks? Did these patterns change from the early to late
Northern Song and then again from the late Northern Song to the late Southern Song?
Places

Social Relations
People-Places

People-Social Relations

People
People-Kinship

Kinship

People-Oﬃce

Oﬃce

Querying the Relationship of PLACE and SOCIAL RELATIONS
Finally, we can look at the interaction of multiple factors like the role of PLACE in the
relationship between KINSHIP and OFFICE:



Chapter : Relational Databases

Places

Social Relations

People-Places

People-Social Relations

People
People-Kinship

Kinship

People-Oﬃce

Oﬃce

Querying the Role of PLACE in KINSHIP-OFFICE Relations
Were oﬃcials from Fujian more likely to develop local kinship networks than were oﬃcial
from Zhejiang? Did patterns diﬀer depending on the rank, and did the patterns change over
time?
In a relational database, the only real constraint on asking questions about the
interactions of the entities in CBDB is how well one understands the database and the
structure of the data in it.

Chapter . The Structure of CBDB
A. An Overview of the Entities in the Database
Database design uses tables to give concrete form to more abstract objects which we simply call
“entities.” Since the goal of a database is to capture the relational information about entities, it
remains useful to keep the abstract objects separate from the tables that represent their
relations. That way, one can more easily ask the question of how the tables need to change to
better stand in for the entities they represent.
The central entity that deﬁnes biography in the database is, of course:
.

People

But since a relational database tracks the ways in which people form relations with other people,
with their society (their political, social, economic and cultural institutions), and with the
physical world, we also need entities with which people interact. First, relationships with
people (these entities will be discussed in greater detail later):
.
.

Kinship
Social (Non-kin) Associations

Next, with political and socio-cultural institutions and activities:
.
.
.
.

Status (modes of social distinction such fame for calligraphy or serving as a monk)
Modes of Entry into Government or other careers (e.g., passing the civil-service
examinations, nepotism or the yin protection privilege)
Postings to oﬃce (e.g., a magistrate or general)
Social Institution in which people collectively participated (from Buddhist temples
and Confucian academies to the repair of city walls and bridges)

There also are texts that people produced and through which we know about people:
.

Texts (including primary texts, secondary texts, and paleographic data). These include
data sources from which CBDB draws its information (primary sources, secondary
scholarly compilations, and digital resources).

Then, there are structured aspects of the world with which people interacted that must be
included in CBDB. The two aspects on which we have focused are administrative geography
and bureaucratic structure:
.

Administrative Geographic Hierarchy (deﬁned in political terms as superior and
subordinate administrative units)



Chapter : The Structure of CBDB

.



Bureaucratic Organization (the changes in bureaucracy and reporting
responsibilities over time)

B. Details of Entities
NOTE: The database allows one to record the source of information, including the pages in the
source from which the information comes, and to add additional notes as seems appropriate.
Every item in the database that records information on an individual has the attributes of source,
pages, and notes. Therefore I will not note these in the discussions below.
1. People
a. Basic Data: name, male or female, date of birth, and date of death.
Precise dates of birth and death often are not available, and all we have is a period of years
of activity (“ﬂoruit” dates). Sometimes, not even that is available: we simply know the reign
period (nianhao) or dynasty. In order to capture the level of precision in the data, the
database allows the use of reign period information for all dates. One can give a speciﬁc
year within the reign period, but one also can simply indicate “beginning,” “middle”,
“end”, or “unspeciﬁed.” For analytic purposes, the database will algorithmically produce
Western dates from the reign period information for birth, death, years of activity, and any
other date given in the traditional Chinese nianhao designation, but it will preserve the
vagueness in the nianhao coding.
b. Ethnicity and Tribe Aﬃliation
CDBD tracks ethnicity, like Han, Uighur, Tibetan, etc. We have over  codes at
present. These codes are in the table ETHICITY_TRIBE_CODES, which organizes
ethnicity and tribe designations by group and subgroup and includes variant forms for
ethnicity names.
c. Choronym
From the Six Dynasties into the Tang, membership in a clan was of central importance
in deﬁning one’s social status. From the Song Dynasty onward people did make claims
descent from a particular clan from a particular place (like the Cui clan of Boling) but
they carried little social or political weight. The combination of place name and clan
name deﬁned a choronym. The codes for these choronyms are in the table
CHORONYM_CODES.
c. Index Year
For computational purposes, CBDB needs a single year value to locate a person in
time. The index year is an artiﬁcial value used in analyses. In earlier versions of the

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



database, index year was based on when the person would have turned  sui.
However, starting with the  dataset, the index year has been based on the known
or projected year of birth. The rules for calculating the value are complex and based
on the following assumptions:
A:
A:
A:
A:
A:

that a man received a Jinshi (進士) degree at age , the Juren (舉人) degree at
, and the Xuicai/licentiate (秀才/生員) degree at 
that a wife was  years younger than her husband
the the first child was born when the father is at age  and a mother at age 
(per assumption A)
that male children were born  years apart
that a man died at age  and a woman at age 

Rules Based on a Person’s Birth/Death Dates
Rule : Ego's index year = ego’s birth year
Rule : If we know ego’s death year and age at death, then: ego’s index year =
ego’s death year – age at death
Rule : If we know just the ego’s death year then: (per A) ego’s index year =
ego’s death year –  (for men), ego’s death year –  (for women)
Rule W: Ego’s index year = husband’s birth year + (Note: If the woman was a
concubine/second wife, then rule W precedes rule W.)
Rules Based on Degree Dates
Rule : Ego’s index year = the year he obtained the Jinshi (進士) - 
Rule W: Ego’s index year = the year her husband obtained the Jinshi (進士) + = husband’s Jinshi year - 
Rule : Ego’s index year = the year he obtained the Juren (舉人) - 
Rule W: Ego’s index year = the year her husband obtained the Juren (舉人) + = husband’s Juren year - 
Rule : Ego’s index year = the year he obtained the Xuicai (秀才/生員) - 
Rule W: Ego’s index year = the year her husband obtained the Xuicai (秀才/生員
年) - + = husband’s Xuicai year - 
Rules based on Birth Years of Kin
Rule : If we know the birth year of ego’s father, then ego’s index year is decided
per assumption A: ego's birth year was  years later than father's birth
(Ego’s index year = father’s birth year + )
Rule : If we know the birth year of a male’s oldest child, then ego’s index year
is decided per A: ego's birth year was  years earlier than the birth year
(Male’s index year = oldest child’s birth year – )
Rule W: If we know the birth year of a female’s oldest child, then ego's index
year is decided per A: ego's birth year was  years earlier than the birth

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



year of her oldest child. (Female’s index year = oldest child’s birth year )
Rule : If we know the birth year of ego’s older brother, then ego’s index year
is decided per A: ego’s birth year was  years later than older brother’s
birth year. (Ego’s index year = older brother’s birth year+)
Rule : If we know the birth year of ego’s younger brother, then ego’s index
year is decided per A: ego’s birth year was  years earlier than younger
brother’s birth year. (Ego's index year = younger brother’s birth year-)
Rule : If we know the birth year of a male’s oldest son-in-law, then ego’s
index year is decided per A & A: ego’s birth year was  years earlier
than the birth year of his oldest daughter, and his oldest son-in-law was
 years older than oldest daughter. (Male’s index year = birth year of
oldest son-in-law+- = birth year of oldest son-in-law -)
Rule W: If we know the birth year of a female’s oldest son-in-law, then ego’s
index year is decided per A & A: female’s birth year was  years
earlier than the birth year of her oldest daughter, and her son-in-law was
 years older than her oldest daughter. (Female’s index year = birth year
of oldest son-in-law+- = birth year of oldest son-in-law - )
Rule : If we know the birth year of ego’s grandfather, then ego’s index year is
decided per assumption A: ego's birth year was  years later than
grandfather’s birth year. (Ego's index year = grandfather’s birth year +
)
Rules Based on the Index Years of Kin
(Note: CBDB iteratively uses the derived index years for these values.)
Rule : If we know the index year of ego’s father, then we use father’s index
year to decide ego’s index year per A. (Ego’s index year = father’s index
year + )
Rule : If we know the index year of a male’s oldest child, then we use that
year to decide ego’s index year per A. (Ego’s index year = index year of
oldest child - )
Rule W: If we know the index year of a female’s oldest child, then we use that
year to decide ego’s index year per A. (Female’s index year = index
year of oldest child - )
Rule : If we know the index year of ego’s older brother, then we use that year
to decide ego’s index year per A. (Ego’s index year = index year of older
brother + )
Rule : If we know the index year of ego’s younger brother, then we use that
year to decide ego’s index year per A. (Ego’s index year = index year of
younger brother - )
Rule : If we know the index year of a male’s oldest son-in-law, then we use
that year to decide ego’s index year per A & A: ego’s birth year was 
years earlier than the birth year of his oldest daughter, and his oldest
son-in-law was  years older than oldest daughter. (Ego’s index year =

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



index year of oldest son-in-law + - = index year of oldest son-inlaw - )
Rule W: If we know the index year of a female’s oldest son-in-law, then we use
that year to decide her index year per A & A: female’s birth year was
 years earlier than the birth year of her oldest daughter, and her sonin-law was  years older than her oldest daughter. (Ego’s index year =
index year of oldest son-in-law + - = index year of oldest son-inlaw - )
Rule : If we know the index year of ego’s grandfather, then we use
grandfather’s index year to decide ego’s index year per A. (Ego’s index
year = grandfather’s index year + )
The CBDB table that records this basic biographical information is BIOG_MAIN.
BIOG_MAIN assigns each person a unique ID.
d. Floruit years
CBDB gives two years: the earliest and the latest. Often when there is no data for
index year or for birth and death dates, texts nonetheless provide datable references to
individuals. CBDB gives the earliest and the latest known dates given in the textual
sources we have examined so far.
2. Kinship
An instance of the Kinship relationship for an individual has three components (plus the
source information):
person
kin
kinship relation
This relationship is structured as: “Person A has Person B (the kin) as his/her Kinship
Relation.” E.g. {Wang Anshi, Wang Anli, B-} means Wang Anshi has Wang Anli as a
younger brother.
The building-block relations for Kinship are the  basic categories:
e
F
M
B
Z
S
D

Ego (the person whose kinship is being explored)
Father
Mother
Brother
Sister
Son
Daughter

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB

H
W
C



Husband
Wife
Concubine

There are also variations on the nature of the relationship, as well as additional types of
notation to represent types of kinship relations beyond the nuclear family:
+
*
°
!
^
½
~
%
y
, , …
n
G-#, G+#
G-n, G+n, Gn
G-#B, BG+#
K, K-#, K+#, Kn

K–, K+
P, P-#, P+#, Pn

P–, P+
A

Older (e.g. older brother B+, 兄)
Younger (e.g. younger sister Z‐， 妹)
Adopted heir (as in S*, adopted son)
Adopted
Bastard
Step- (as in S^ step-son)
half- (as in Z½ , half-sister)
Nominal (as in M~ , legitimate wife as nominal mother to
children of concubine)
Promised husband or wife (marriage not completed at time of
record)
Youngest (e.g., Sy is the youngest known son)
Numbers distinguish sequence (e.g., S, S for ﬁrst and second
sons; W, W for the ﬁrst and the successor wives)
precise generation unknown
lineal ancestor (–) or descendant (+) of #th generation
lineal kin of an unknown earlier generation (G-n), or
unknown later generation (G+n), or unknown generation
(Gn)
a brother of a lineal ancestor of # generation; a brother’s lineal
descendant of # generation
Lineage kin, of the same, earlier (–), later (+) or unknown (n)
generation. CBDB uses “lineage kin” for cases where kinship is
attested but the exact relationship is not known. Lineage kin are
presumably not lineal (direct descent) kin.
Lineage kin of the same generation, younger (-) or elder (+).
Kin related via father’s sisters or mother’s siblings, of the same,
earlier (–), later (+) or unknown (n) generation. Signiﬁed by
the term biao (表) in Chinese. (CBDB uses these codes only
when the exact relationship is not known).
Kin related via father's sisters or mother's siblings, of the same
generation, younger (-) or elder (+).
Aﬃne/Aﬃnal kin, kin by marriage

The codes for the types of relationships are in the table KINSHIP_CODES. Although
CBDB records all the many variations of kinship, searches for kinship networks in CBDB
use an important set of four metrics for kinship distance to simplify the vast proliferation
of terms. Each code KINSHIP_CODES table has values for

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



up, i.e., ancestor generation: father = , grandfather = , and so on
down, i.e., descendent generation: son = , grandson = , etc.
collateral relation: brother = , brother’s wife’s sister” =....
marriage relation: wife = , wife’s father’s wife = , and so on.
Thus brothers, step-brothers, bastard brothers, and adopted brothers all have set of values
{up = ; down = ; collateral = ; marriage = }. The data recording the kinship relations
between people is stored in the table KIN_DATA.
3. Non-kinship Associations
a. Simple Non-kinship Associations
These have a three-part structure: person + association + associate. The major challenge
in recording the non-kinship Associations that individuals formed over their lives is to
control the proliferation of categories derived from the historical texts.
Because associations are between pairs of people, there must be symmetrical types of
associations. That is, if {A “is the student of” B} is in the database, then {B “is the teacher
of” A} also should be so. In fact, the current version of the program automatically
generates this second entry. Thus, ASSOCIATIONS as an entity has an internal structure:
Association type
Paired Association type
Association Categories/subcategories ( levels at present)
When editors for CBDB create a new category of association, they must also create its
converse. Mutual associations, of course, are their own converse: {A “is friend of” B} is
the same as {B “is friend of” A}. In most associations, however, the two people play
distinct roles, and CBDB needs the converse category to capture the roles of the two
people from their diﬀerent perspectives: to record for A that {A “followed” B} also means
that for B, {B “was followed by” A}.
b. Mediated Associations
In some important cases, associations form through the mediation of institutions or people.
CBDB captures these types of relations by adding additional data to associations. For
example, we might know of a relation between X and Y because X asked Y to write a
biography for his mother’s tomb. In order to record all the variations, the record structure
for the table ASSOC_DATA has become rather challenging to understand.

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



c. Structure of an Association Record
Because associations in pre-modern Chinese society often are complex, the table tracking
associations in CBDB uses a correspondingly large number of ﬁelds:
Basic Information
. Person ID
. Associated person ID
. The kind of association (association code)
. The number of objects or events establishing the association
Information about Kinship and Other Relations that played a role in the Association
. The kinship relation, if the association was established through a relative of the
person
. The ID of the person whose kinship relation established the association
. The kinship relation of the associate, if the association was established through a
relative of the associated person
. The ID of the kin of the associate through whom the association was established
. The ID of the person who claimed the existence of the association: for example,
a son claiming it for his father
Time and Place of the Association
. The ID of the place of the association
. The sequence of an association, if one does not know the actual date
. The date of the association (year, month, and day, if known)
Contextual Information
. The code for the social institution at or through which the association was
established
. The code for the occasion on which the association was established
. The code for the genre of the writing that establishes the association, if relevant
. The title of the work that established the association, if relevant
. The code for the scholarly topic around which the association was formed
Source and Notes
. Source ID
. Note

4. Status
CBDB has a table to take note of “social distinctiveness,” that for which people were
known in society. Since the dating often is uncertain, however, the table has a ﬁeld to
record sequence if known. Some forms of social distinctiveness may combine roles (a

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



Buddhist monk known for his calligraphy, or a literatus who runs a printing ﬁrm). At
present, CBDB records the diﬀerent aspects of status under distinct categories. This is a
question awaiting future research.
The structure of a Status datum for a person is:
Person ID
Status code
Status sequence
Date
Source information and notes
STATUS as a category of social experience (as opposed to any particular person’s status
within the structure of social distinction) is a simple entity:
Status code
Status description
Status category and subcategory 
Status category and subcategory 
Since social distinctions change over time, CBDB will continue to add to its current list as
it draws upon sources for earlier and later periods.
5. Modes of Entry
ENTRY itself is a simple entity, just a name, a type, and a subtype. At present it largely
describes entry into government, but CBDB also has begun to track categories like monks’
ordinations. Because diﬀerent routes of entry entail diﬀerent types of information, the
instance of an ENTRY event for an individual is more complex. If a person enters
government through the examination system, for example, we would like to know the type
of examination and the date of the degree. (CBDB also tracks failed examinations.) If, in
contrast, one enters government through the merit of someone else, the person, and the
relationship to the person should also be recorded, if known. Thus if Zhang Weisan
entered oﬃce through yin protection privilege deriving from his uncle Zhang Jingyi, the
entry would be:
Person: [ID of] Zhang Weisan
Entry type: [code for] yin
Entry relation type: [code for] Uncle
Entry relation: [ID of] Zhang Jingyi
Since it is also possible that one can enter oﬃce through the yin privilege of a non-kin
associate, the “entry event” will need to have a way to record the non-kinship relation. In
the end, then, the ENTRY event has many attributes, only some of which are relevant to
any particular instance:

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



Person ID
Entry type code
Entry relation type code (for kin)
Entry associate type code (for non-kin)
Entry associate ID (used for both kin and non-kin)
Entry test date (both Western and nianhao + year (if known))
Entry test ranking
Entry address ID
6. Offices and Postings
CBDB currently lists over , oﬃce titles and—for the Tang, Song, Yuan, Ming, and
Qing—their place in the government bureaucracy. POSTINGS is an entity at the
intersection of people, the bureaucracy, and—since most instances will be away from the
capital—places. A person serves in an oﬃce at a given rank in particular place at a speciﬁed
time. However, there are instances when a posting includes jurisdiction over more than
one administrative unit, and there are times when a single posting entails more than one
oﬃcial position. Following the rule that one-to-many relations (i.e., one posting may have
more than one address and one posting may involve more than one oﬃce title) require
separate tables, information about instances of POSTINGS requires two additional
categories of one-to-many relations: in addition to the basic postings table, there are a
posted-to-oﬃce table (relationship of people to oﬃce created in the POSTINGS event)
and a posted-to-oﬃce-address table (relationship of people to oﬃce to place).
Posting-Data
Posting ID (this is a unique number)
Person ID
Source and Notes
Posted-to-Oﬃce
Posting ID
Oﬃce ID
Appointment Type (regular, provisional, honorary, etc.)
Sequence (since often only the order of oﬃce is known with no further
information about the years for any of the postings)
Year (both Western and nianhao + year: a person may have duties added
while still serving in a post)
Sources and Notes
Posted-to-Address
Posting ID
Oﬃce ID
Address ID

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



Considerations for Future Development
. Buddhism and Daoism
Buddhist and Daoist bureaucratic positions eventually will be added to the OFFICE
and POSTINGS entities. This, however, also entails signiﬁcant research to clarify the
historical changes in the structure of the Buddhist and Daoist bureaucracies.
. Tracking Historical Change in Bureaucratic structure
One of the design issues that need to be considered again is how much of the
complexity of the Chinese imperial bureaucratic system should be captured in the
database. In the Chinese system from the Han through the Qing, the duties of a
position may change even though the title of the oﬃce remains constant, or the duties
may remain constant although the title changes. Scholars have objected that Charles
Hucker’s Dictionary of Oﬃcial Titles tries to force a continuity of function onto oﬃce
names when it would have been more useful to simply acknowledge the drifts. Hucker’s
translated titles are indexed, however, and provide those who do not read Chinese with
an easy means of further investigation. CBDB is planning to create tables that will
capture the historical changes in the functions designated by any particular oﬃce title.
(Oﬃce Name would become one entity and Oﬃce Function would be another.)
Most of the actual duties of an oﬃce at any particular time are not relevant to the CBDB
because these details contribute little to the analytic power of the database; the attributes
of an oﬃce that do matter are () oﬃce as an indication of salary/rank or actual function,
() the other oﬃce to which it reports, and () the type of the oﬃce (i.e. central military,
prefectural civil, etc.) At present, CBDB has captured some of this information, but
clarifying the changes in oﬃce title is in itself a major research project.
7. Places
CBDB uses a strategy for coding places that derives from the China Historical Geographic
Information System (CHGIS) project and relies on the spatial entity ADDRESSES.
Addresses are speciﬁcally historical instances of place designation that refer to an
administrative jurisdiction. Although administrative jurisdictions such as counties (xian)
and prefectures (zhou and fu) were bounded spatial entities, CBDB uses the coordinates for
the administrative seat as the address; it does not provide boundaries. Boundaries can be
downloaded from CHGIS. If either the boundaries or the name changes, a new address
record (and ID) must be created. These historical instances, however, are part of
administrative hierarchies: this information is preserved in a “belongs-to” table that serves
the same function as the “part-of” table in CHGIS. Since an address ID changes only
when the unit changes shape or name, it does not change ID simply when it becomes part of
a diﬀerent higher level administrative unit. Thus there are two tables:

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



Address Code
Address code
Address name
Administrative type
X coordinate
Y coordinate
Address ﬁrst year
Address last year
Belongs to
Address code
Belongs-to Address code
Belongs-to ﬁrst year
Belongs-to last year
From these two tables CBDB generates a convenient Addresses table that is used in the
online database and can be consulted in the stand-alone version to provide information
about the role of administrative units in the bureaucratic structure. Its structure is:
Address code
Address name
Address ﬁrst year (that the address belongs to the superior place)
Address last year (that the address belongs to the superior place)
Administrative type
X coordinate
Y coordinate
belongs (the parent: the larger administrative unit it reports to)
belongs (the parent of the parent)
belongs (etc.)
belongs
belongs
To allow the examination of trends across dynastic boundaries, the database needs a way to
examine what happens in a particular location over long periods of time. For this, CBDB
relies on data about physical location, the x-y coordinates on the map. 1 The analytic forms
allow one to use the x-y data for the addresses one has selected to deﬁne squares around
those x-y coordinates and locate additional addresses across time that fall within those
squares. These addresses then can be searched across the time period one has speciﬁed.
To reiterate, CBDB uses the x-y coordinates of the seat of the administrative unit.

1

In Geographic Information Systems (GIS) research, longitude and latitude typically are referred to as x-y
coordinates.

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



8. Biographical Place Information
People have many connections to place: where they were born, lived, died, and were
buried, where they served in oﬃce, where they held property and ran businesses, where
they visited. Since these relations to place arise out of activities recorded in separate tables
in CBDB (e.g., oﬃce holding, and possessions), the information appears in these various
tables rather than in one place. The tables that record information about people and places
are:
Basic biographical information relating to place (BIOG_ADDR_DATA)
Place of oﬃcial service (POSTED_TO_ADDR_DATA)
The place where a non-kinship relation took place (ASSOC_DATA)
The place where people participated in social institutions (BIOG_INST_DATA)
The CBDB form (LookAtPlace) allows the user to ask questions that integrate all these
sources of place information. Note that at present CBDB does not systematically preserve
information about places persons brieﬂy visited, where they received their education, or
where they wrote texts.
CBDB attempts to associate each person with an index place. As with index year, CBDB
assigns these place associations based on available information, but the data is often
incomplete. Therefore CBDB uses a hierarchy of categories of place association to assign a
person’s index place. CBDB ﬁrst uses the “basic aﬃliation” 籍貫, if available. The order
of assigning address aﬃliations is as follows:
. Basic aﬃliation 籍貫
. Household address 戶籍地 (Ming dynasty)
. Actual residence 落籍
. Last known address
. Moved to
. Eight Banners (Qing dynasty)
. Alternative basic aﬃliation
. Place of exile
However, this hierarchy of codes to use in assigning the index place may not be the most
suitable for particular research projects. Thus, CBDB allows the user to change this order.
See Appendix X for discussion.
9. Texts
There are three major types of texts of concern to the database: inscriptional and other
paleographic material, printed primary texts, and secondary scholarship (in both print and
digital form). Since a work like Huang Zongxi’s Song Yuan xue’an is both a scholarly
compendium of earlier writings and a work in its own right, and since the paleographic

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



materials also were written by authors who are of interest to the database, these distinctions
for pre-modern texts of any sort are neither clear nor useful. CBDB accordingly treats all
three types as TEXTS. Texts have the attributes one can expect:
title
category of writing (inscription or manuscript/printed)
genre (the bibliographic categories common to that period)
current publication date
current publisher
current publication location
People can relate to the text in a variety of roles:
author
publisher
editor
collator
translator
annotator
The tables for texts are:
Texts Codes
Text ID
Text Name
Date of composition
Current status: extant or not
Current Publication Information (if extant)
Text Data
Text ID
Person ID
Role ID (from the table TEXT_ROLE_CODES)

10. Social Institutions
People participated in the lives of their communities in many ways. A man, for example,
may have served for several years as the director of an academy. That academy had
students during this period: their respective roles in the academy would have served as
important social links between the man and the students. The academy also had donors
who contributed to its creation and upkeep and helped to deﬁne a community centered on
the institution. Similar patterns appeared for Buddhist monasteries and Daoist temples.

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



CBDB is beginning to track this information in a way that captures the uncertainty we ﬁnd
in the historical sources. There are, for example, thirty-nine temples with the name
Kaiyuansi 開元寺. A biographical source may tell us that Wang Anshi contributed funds
to repairs at a Kaiyuansi, but we may not know (yet) which Kaiyuansi was the recipient.
Other sources eventually may clarify the point, but for the moment CBDB simply records
“a Kaiyuansi.” There are four tables used to record this information:
Social Institution Names
Institution Name ID
Institution Name
Social Institutions
Institution Name ID
Institution Code (this is a unique ID for each institution: the name is an attribute that
may change, but what the institution is, identiﬁed by the ID, does not. Of course, if
the textual data shows that the name change signiﬁed to the people at the time that
this was a new institution, then CBDB assigns the institution a new institution code as
well.)
Institution Type ID
Institution Dates (this includes the beginning and ending years, if known, as well as the
ﬁrst known and last known years
Social Institution Addresses
Institution Name ID
Institution Code
Address ID (this gives an approximate location by identifying an administrative unit)
XY-coordinates (this may be more precise than the coordinates associated with the
Address ID. An institution may move within its locality.)
Address Type (derived from Address ID or recorded independently)
Address Dates
Relationship of People to Institutions
Person ID
Institution Name ID
Institution Code (if only the name is known, CBDB assigns a 0 to this ﬁeld)
Institutional Role Code
Role Dates

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



Summary of Tables in CBDB
1. Basic Entities
These represent the basic elements of the social world of pre-modern China. Each has a
complex history and structure that are set out in additional ancillary tables. CBDB records the
interaction of people with these aspects of their world in the secondary tables.
Table Name
ADDR_CODES
ADDRESSES
ASSOC_CODES
BIOG_MAIN
ENTRY_CODES
KINSHIP_CODES
OFFICE_CODES
SOCIAL_INSTITUTION_CODES
STATUS_CODES
TEXT_CODES

Description
the units in the administrative geography of China.
a convenient reference table that displays the hierarchy
the non-kinship social relations that connected people
the people of pre-modern China
the means by which people entered into institutions
the kinship categories of pre-modern China
the units of the bureaucratic organization of government
a list of academies, monasteries, temples, etc.
the means by which people attained social distinction
the corpus of pre-modern writings + important secondary works

2. Relations between Basic Entities
Table Name
ADDR_BELONGS_DATA
ALTNAME_DATA
ASSOC_DATA
BIOG_ADDR_DATA
BIOG_INST_DATA
BIOG_SOURCE_DATA
BIOG_TEXT_DATA
ENTRY_DATA
KIN_DATA
OFFICE_TYPE_TREE
POSTED_TO_ADDR
POSTING_DATA
POSTED_TO_OFFICE_DATA
STATUS_DATA

Description
data for the hierarchical structure of administrative units
the many names by which people were known
the non-kinship relations between people
relations between people and administrative geography
the relations of people to social institutions
the list of sources used in deﬁning the CBDB data for a person
the relations of people to texts
the initiating relations between people and institutions
the kinship relations connecting people
the hierarchical structure of bureaucratic organizations
the relations between people, oﬃce, and place
the container table for postings: people linked to oﬃce
the details of people’s connection to oﬃce
data on a person’s place in the system of social distinctions

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



3. Relationship Type Information
Table Name
BIOG_ADDR_CODES
ALTNAME_CODES
APPOINTMENT_TYPE_CODES
ASSOC_TYPES
ASSUME_OFFICE_CODES
BIOG_INST_CODES
ENTRY_TYPE
EXTANT_CODES
GENRE_CODES
GENRE_TYPES
LITERARYGENRE_CODES
OCCASION_CODES
OFFICE_TYPES
SCHOLARLYTOPICS_CODES
SOCIAL_INSTITUTION_ADDR_
TYPES
SOCIAL_INSTITUTION_TYPES
STATUS_TYPE
TEXT_BIBLCAT_CODES
TEXT_BIBLCAT_TYPES
TEXT_ROLE_CODES
YEAR_RANGE_CODES

Description
the categories of relations between people and places
the categories of names by which people were known
the categories of relations between people and postings:
regular, acting, probationary, etc.
broader categories of social relationships that organize the
many non-kinship association codes into groups
indicating whether a person took up the posting
the roles a person plays in relation to an institution
broader categories of entry to organize the entry codes into
groups
indicating degree of the source and its known existence
the bibliographic classiﬁcations of texts
the broader categories of bibliographic classiﬁcations
the forms of literary composition
the events in which people participated
the categories of oﬃces
the categories of topics of learning and scholarship
the type of address (actual or derived) used for an institution
the categories of social institutions
The categories of social distinction
The ﬁne-grained categories by which texts are organized
The larger units for textual categorization
the categories of relations between people and texts
the relative degree of exactness of a date

4. Historical Auxiliary Tables
Table Name
CHORONYM_CODES
COUNTRY_CODES
DYNASTIES
ETHNICITY_TRIBE_CODES
GANZHI_CODES
KIN_MOURNING
MEASURE_CODES
NIAN_HAO
SOCIAL_INSTITUTION_
ALTNAMES
SOCIAL_INSTITUTION_
ALTNAMES_TYPES

Description
codes for the place+surname used to identify medieval clans
codes for countries appearing in the data
codes for dynasties and periods
codes for ethnic groups appearing in the data
codes for the sixty two-character terms in sexagenary cycle
codes for all kin relations and mourning obligations in the ﬁve
degrees of mourning
codes for quantities of goods, money, books, and space
codes for all reign period titles
a list of alternative names for social institutions
codes for diﬀerent types of alternative names

Chapter : The Structure of CBDB



5. Analytic Auxiliary Tables
Table Name
ASSOC_CODE_TYPE_REL
ENTRY_CODE_TYPE_REL
GENRE_CODE_TYPE_REL
OFFICE_CODE_TYPE_REL
OFFICE_CATEGORIES
STATUS_CODE_TYPE_REL

Description
the relationship of speciﬁc social relations to larger categories of
social relations
the relationship of speciﬁc modes of entry to larger categories of
entry
the relationship of speciﬁc genre codes to larger categories of
genres
the relationship of speciﬁc oﬃces to the oﬃce hierarchy
the categories of oﬃces: rank, honorary, etc.
the relation of speciﬁc status codes to the larger categories of
social distinction

TEXT_BIBLCAT_CODE_TYPE_REL

6. “Denormalized” Tables
Because the data tables for the relations between basic entities (group  above) are in
normalized form that uses codes that refer to other tables for the entities, relations, and
historical information, they are diﬃcult to use for queries (See Chapter ). In order to
simplify the process of writing queries, CBDB provides a set of tables where the codes have
been supplemented by the values (mostly text strings like the names of people, places, oﬃcial
positions, etc.) to which the codes refer. The main tables are listed below:
Table Name
ZZZ_ALT_NAME_DATA
ZZZ_BIOG_ADDR_DATA
ZZZ_BIOG_MAIN
ZZZ_BIOG_NAME_OFFICE

Description
ﬁlls in alternate name type
ﬁlls in address and address type
ﬁlls in nianhao, ethnicity
Links surnames to posted oﬃce names (used in
searching)
ZZZ_BIOG_TEXT_DATA
ﬁlls in the person’s name, the person’s role, and
the text data
ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA
ﬁlls in the person’s name, entry type, etc.
ZZZ_KIN_BIOG_ADDR
this is the table for kinship, but it also provides
the index place
ZZZ_NONKIN_BIOG_ADDR
this is the table for associations, but it also
provides the index place
ZZZ_POSTED_TO_ADDR_DATA
ﬁlls in person name, oﬃce name, address
information
ZZZ_POSTED_TO_OFFICE_DATA ﬁlls in person name and oﬃce information
ZZZ_STATUS_DATA
ﬁlls in person name and status description

Chapter . CBDB Tools for Analysis
The China Biographical Database contains large amounts of information, but the information
is of little value unless there are ways to analyze it. At present, the Access version of CBDB
has seven forms speciﬁcally designed to allow the user to query the database about important
categories of information. The names of the forms describe their function.
. LookAtEntry allows one to ﬁnd groups of people who qualiﬁed for oﬃce through a
particular route for a speciﬁed period.
. LookAtAssociations allows one to ﬁnd groups of people who were linked through a
particular category of association
. LookAtOﬃce allows one to look at not only the people who held particular oﬃces but
also those who held related oﬃces subordinate to ever higher levels of bureaucratic
structure.
. LookAtKinship allows one to examine the kinship networks for individuals. These
include both the mourning circle of the traditional Chinese kinship system and more
extended sets of relations.
. LookAtNetworks allows one to look at all the networks (both kinship and social
relations) for an individual, a group of individuals, or a speciﬁed place.
. LookAtAssociationPairs allows one to examine the intersection of the networks for two
individuals. It locates both people connected to the two target individuals but also can
identify connections at one further remove (i.e. people who had a connection with the ﬁrst
individual who had relations to people somehow related to the second individual).
. LookAtPlace brings together all the types of relations between people and places into a
single form. People who formed social relations in a place, served in oﬃce there, or whose
registry was there all can be part of a single list.
. LookAtStatus allows one to group those individuals identiﬁed by particular forms of
social distinction.
. LookAtTexts allows the user to explore the people associated with the production of
particular categories of texts (unoﬃcial histories, commentaries on canonical ritual texts,
etc.)
In more complicated queries, one can explore relations between groups of people by using the
results of a search in one form as the input to a second form. Chapter , on advanced queries,
considers an example of this approach. Beyond the six forms, however, Access also allows the
user who is familiar with the structure of the database to make queries that can look at any and
all aspects of CBDB data. This process uses Access’ built-in Query Designer to create SQL
(Structured Query Language) queries to examine the data and is the second topic in Chapter .



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



NOTE: The explanations of the forms in this chapter provide examples of searches, but the
results you get will diﬀer from these because CBDB periodically updates the data in the tables.

A. The Navigation Pane

As the name suggests, the Navigation Pane is the central console for using the forms
developed for the Access version of the database. Clicking on the nine query command
buttons opens the browser and the eight analytic forms discussed above. The Navigation Pane
also has four additional functions.
. Error Reporting: The Navigation pane also allows you to report problems with the
program. If you click on “Report an Error,” the program brings you to a Google form:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Select the type of error and ﬁll in the information requested on the form.
. User’s Guide: Clicking on “Users Guide” will open a copy of this User’s Guide.
. Relinking the Data Tables: The current version of the Access database splits the CBDB
data tables from the user interface. Because the database has grown very large, the size of the
ﬁles that hold the data were approaching the limit of what Access could handle, and thus the
data tables are in three separate ﬁles. The user interface then is linked to the tables. When you
ﬁrst open the user interface, the program automatically links the interface to the data tables, as
long as the three ﬁles are in the same folder as the user interface ﬁle. However, because the
data and the interface are in separate ﬁles, it is now possible to update each of these separately.
If there is a new release of the CBDB data, you can download the new data ﬁles into
your CBDB folder and then link the interface to those new ﬁles. The CBDB data release will
have a date-stamp in the form YYYYMMDD as part of the name of the ﬁles. If you click on
“Relink Tables,” a form will request the date-stamp information:

Simply ﬁll in the new version information and click “OK.”
. Changing the Index Address Ranking: While the default setting for how CBDB
deﬁnes index places works well for most users, scholars pursuing particular topics may need to
change how index place is deﬁned. Clicking on this command button opens a form to allow
the user to do just this. When one opens the form, it shows the current order for selection of
categories of relation to place that is used to deﬁne the index place:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



One then can choose a new set of categories to be used to deﬁne index place. Clicking on
“Disable” limits the selection process to just those categories above the disabled row:

In this example, we set the ﬁrst choice for index place to “Household Address” (戶籍地) and
the second to “Actual Residence” 落籍. All other relations to place are ignored. Clicking on
the “Update Index Addresses” then recalculates the index place for BIOG_MAIN and replaces
the values for index place in all the tables that use the value.
After changing the ranking of place aﬃliations, one can restore the CBDB default
ranking and index place values by simply clicking on the “Reset to Default” command button.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



B. The Browser: Looking up Data on an Individual
The browser in CBDB provides a convenient way to explore basic information on individuals
in the database. It draws on just the raw data for people in the database, so it has no signiﬁcant
analytic or synthetic abilities. The only exception in is the name search functions described
below. When one opens the browser, it begins with the ﬁrst person in the BIOG_MAIN
table. (The sorting by name starts with all people who have just a personal name but no
surname.)

Since the CBDB interface in MS Access aspires to be bilingual, the user can switch between
English, traditional characters (繁體) and simpliﬁed characters (简体) by clicking on the buttons in
the upper right of the form.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Searching the Database
By Name
Since BIOG_MAIN has over , people, just scrolling through the window on the left is
not the most eﬀective way to locate an individual. Therefore, the browser has two search
functions. The ﬁrst is a search by name. “Name,” however, includes all the categories of
names used in CBDB (courtesy name 字, style name 號, etc.). Thus, if a text provides only Su
Shi’s 蘇軾 style name, Dongpo 東坡, rather than his full name, one can search by that alone to
see how many people share those two characters in any of their names. Of course, one can
directly search by “Su Shi” or “蘇軾” as well.
Searching by Pinyin
. A basic search by pinyin (i.e., “Su Shi”) looks for the search string anywhere in the name, but
the search can be narrowed or broadened.
. Using a lower-case name, the search looks for the phrase in any part of a name, so that “hao”
will produce “Zhao Fang,” “Shao Yong,” and “Chao Buzhi,” etc., as well as “Hao Jing” and
“Cheng Hao.”
. If the ﬁrst letter is capitalized (“Hao”), the search ﬁnds names that begin with “Hao” (“Hao
Jing” and “Cheng Hao”).
. If one adds an “!” at the beginning, the search routine looks at just surnames.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

By Name + Oﬃce
If a text provides only a surname and a title, the browser allows one to search by those as well.



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Clicking on the “Search by Surname + Oﬃce” command button opens a form that allows
one to not only specify the name and oﬃce but also to narrow the search by providing a range
of index years or dynasties:

Note: Using the Chinese name and oﬃce produces more certain result, since the form simply
looks for all oﬃce titles for people with the given surname in the database. (The pinyin oﬃce
titles are in lower case with a space between each character.) Clicking on the Postings tab and
scrolling through Du Fu’s nine posts conﬁrms that he indeed served as a Gongbu yuanwai lang.
Once one clicks the “Search” command button, if the form ﬁnds any people who
match the speciﬁed criteria, these results are transferred to the Browser:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Exploring Results
The browser itself is fairly self-explanatory. Each tab provides the basic data in CBDB for the
individual in the main categories: addresses, alternative names, writings, postings, mode(s) of
entry into service, events, status, kinship relations, social relations, possessions, the sources
used for the information, and relations to institutions. The lists of social relations are just
those stored in the basic tables: they are far less complete than the lists created by
LookAtNewtworks.
The current version of the browser incorporates two signiﬁcant improvements in the
display of data. The ﬁrst is that the list of kin is more complete than in in earlier versions.
Those versions provided just the raw list of kin in the raw data table KIN_DATA. Now the
browser implements a search for the individual’s kinship network using parameters for
maximum kinship distance. The browser searches for combinations including  ancestor
generations,  descendant generations, one marriage connection and one collateral (i.e.,
brother or sister) relationship link. For greater detail, see the discussion in “Using the Form
‘Query Kinship’”

For Su Shi, the browser discovered  kinship relations (the ﬁrst is just “ego,” Su Shi
himself). The Notes ﬁeld for each kinship record provides the path that the search took to get
from Su Shi to the kin listed in the record. For Chao Buzhi, for example, the query went from
Su Shi’s third son to that son’s second daughter’s husband. Chao Buzhi was that husband’s
mother’s brother.
The second change is to provide a hyperlink to whatever databases were used to acquire
information on an individual. For Su Shi, for example, the browser provides a link to his entry
in Academia Sinica’s Naming Authority 人名權威資料 database:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Clicking on the link takes one to Su Shi’s entry:

Saving Results
A. Having located a person, one can use the Store Person ID button to save the person’s ID to
be reused in Query Kinship, Query Social Networks, and Query Pair-wise Associations.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



B. One can save all the information assembled in the browser to an HTML ﬁle by clicking on
the Save to File command button.

At present, the HTML ﬁle is in a very simple format (the displayed information here is just the
beginning of the ﬁle):

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



C. Using the Form “Query by Methods of Entry into Government
LookAtEntry is the simplest form. One opens it by clicking on “Query by Methods of Entry
into Government” on the main page and clicks on the “Select Entry” button to choose a
category:

Note that all of the forms have the option to switch between English, traditional or simpliﬁed
Chinese. When one clicks on the “繁體” label, it then gives one the option to return to
English:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Selecting the Modes of Entry
Clicking on the Select Entry button opens a form with a list of options. Since there are many
diﬀerent ways to attain eligibility for oﬃce, CBDB uses a collapsible tree to simplify the
selection process:

One can narrow the choices by looking at a particular general type of entry which is on the
menu on the left of the window (A):

A2
A1

B1

2

One can either select a speciﬁc method of entry from the menu on the right or select all the
listed methods (A). One also can search for a speciﬁc method using the search box located on
the bottom right corner (B). The searching rules for CBDB are to ﬁrst look for the search

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



phrase at the beginning of the text and then look within the text. If CBDB ﬁnds the search, you
can search for the next instance of the phrase (B), if the ﬁrst is not what you seek by clicking
on the “Find Next” button:

B2
Often one wants to look at several categories within a selected type of mode of entry. CBDB
now allows one to select one, two or more method of entry. Simply click to select or to unselect:

As of version BG of the interface, one can save the list of modes of entry one has selected.
Saving the list gives one additional ﬂexibility, since one can combine or edit lists for later use.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



After selecting the combination of modes of entry one wants to explore, one can save them to a
text ﬁle by clicking on Save Entry. This will open a “File Save” dialog box:

Once one has saved the ﬁle, it can be imported again by clicking on Import Entry. This will
open an “File Open” dialog box.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

After selecting the ﬁle to import and clicking on Open, the form will show that it is using an
imported list, and one can run the query using the list:

Setting Search Parameters
Setting Time Parameters
After one ﬁnds the method(s) of entry and clicks Select, one returns to the LookAtEntry
form, and can now choose the year range (1) to run the query ():



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



1

2
The form allows one to choose either the entry year or the index year of the person. (The index
year is included in the search if the box “Use Index Years” is selected.) Because in many cases
we do not know the entry year (given as zero in that case), it may prove useful to run the same
query with the “Use Index Years” option selected:

Note the number of s in the “Entry Year” column. This approach yields  records,
compared with just  when using the entry year. However, there are people for whom we
know the dynasty but do not know their index year. The search by dynasty is less ﬁne-grained:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



although we are looking for the Five Dynasties and Northern Song Dynasty, the entire Song
Dynasty has just one dynastic code. For this search, we identify , people, of whom 
have no index year. However,  of those people do have years of entry:

The table the query produces has  columns:
Name (Pinyin)
Name (Chinese)
Index Year
Index Year Type (English)
Index Year Type (Chinese)
Entry Year
Description of Entry (English)
Description of Entry (Chinese)
Person’s Index Place (Pinyin)
Person’s Index Place (Chinese)
Type of Place Association
X-coordinate of Index Place
Y-coordinate of Index Place
Count of XY coordinates
Exam Rank
Kinship Relation

Kin Name (Pinyin)
Kin Name (Chinese)

(how the Index Year was derived)

See discussion of index place on pages -
the type of place association used in assigning an index place
CBDB uses administrative seats
CBDB calculates how many people in the table share the
same index place
Given, if known. It does not apply to entry through yin
privilege.
Yin privilege allows a person to become eligible for service
based on the merit of a relative. If CBDB knows who that
relative was and what the relationship was, the table gives this
information

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis
Associate Name (Pinyin)
Associate Name (Chinese)
Association
Person ID
Dynasty (English)
Dynasty (Chinese)
Index Year Type Code
Parental Status (English)


Sometimes people are granted entry into government
through recommendation or through the role of some other
non-kin associate
The type of association

For those sources that note whether the parents are alive at
the time of passing the examination.

Parental Status (Chinese)
Place of Entry (Pinyin)
Place of Entry (Chinese)
Place of Entry X-coordinates
Place of Entry Y-coordinates
Place of Entry XY Count

One can sort the table using any of these columns. For example, “Index Year” may be useful.
Left-Click on the column name “Index Year” to select the column and then Right-Click to
choose from the sorting options:

If one wishes to save the table, the simplest method is to select the entire table by clicking on
the small box in the upper left-hand corner. Then save to the clipboard with Ctrl-C.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



One then can paste the table into any program that accepts the format.
Setting Place Parameters
If one wishes to explore the mode of entry for people from a particular region, one uses the
Select Place button in the upper right part of the form:

This opens the Select Address form. One can search for a place name using the ﬁlter box: to
ﬁlter by Kaifeng 開封, enter “Kaifeng” into the Filter text box and then click the Filter

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



command button. This gives a list of all places that begin with the word “Kaifeng.” (Using
the Chinese, here 開封, is better to avoid the possibility of homonyms.)

Note that there are many addresses for Kaifeng. We will select the Kaifeng county active from
 to  by clicking on the corresponding row and clicking Select; this will return us to
the main window, where we can run another query.

Because the index years start in , before the county code, we select “Use XY Reference” to
include codes for the region before . Using the single address for Kaifeng produces  people.
If one wishes to look at Kaifeng more broadly, return to the Select Address form and once
again enter “Kaifeng” into the Filter text box and then click the Filter command button. Then

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



either select ALL the ﬁltered addresses by clicking on the “Select ALL Filtered” button. This
will return you to the main LookAtEntry form, with all the Kaifeng codes selected; by
including the prefecture (Kaifeng Fu) all its subordinate counties will be included:

The Place text ﬁelds will show the ﬁlter term in a pair of square brackets, here “[[Kaifeng]].”
Running the query now produces  records for people from Kaifeng whose index years
were between  and  and who entered government service through the yin privilege.
If all of the address IDs for Kaifeng are too many, one can limit the number of codes in
the Select Address form by selecting just those that are relevant and then click on “Select:”

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



When one selects more than one address, the Query by Method of Entry form will have
“[[Multi-Select]]/[[多選]]” instead of a place name. A search for yin privilege for people with
index years between  and  using these address codes produces  records.

If one wishes more precisely and ﬂexibly to control the address codes in one’s search, one can
create a text ﬁle with a list of address codes. Using the example of Kaifeng, for instance, one
can select all the ﬁltered records in the Select Address form, paste the records into a new
Word or Excel ﬁle, delete the records one does not want, and copy the Address IDs to text ﬁle.

The importing routine checks the list against the address codes in ADDR_CODES and moves
invalid codes to an ImportErrorList table for your inspection. (The table ImportErrorList is
listed on the left-hand part of the Access screen. To view it, just double-click on it.)

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Now click on the Import Places button in the LookAtEntry form and select the ﬁle to
be imported. (CBDB gives a warning when it reads the list of IDs and ﬁnds an invalid ID.) If
the import has been successful, one will see “[Imported List]” in the Place Information text
boxes. Once the list has been imported, set the other parameters, and run the query.

This approach produces  people, the same as the ﬁltered version. However, note the
Include Subordinate Units checkbox in the upper right corner. One of the places on the
imported list was the Kaifeng Superior Prefecture 開封府: it has other counties subordinate to
it that are included in the search when the checkbox is selected. This is the default setting.
Note that the table includes people from Yongqiu 雍邱 and Guancheng 管城: these are
administrative units subordinate to Kaifeng Superior Prefecture and included in the search. If
one unclicks the Include Subordinate Units checkbox, these counties disappear from the
search, which then produced just  people.
There is one additional approach to searching by name that handles the problem of when a
place name might change and thus be excluded from a list using names. During the Later Jin (), for example, Kaifeng was called by its old name, Bianzhou. CBDB allows one to pick
one address (or a ﬁltered or imported list of addresses) and, based on its longitude and latitude,
to ﬁnd all the administrative units throughout the speciﬁed time period that were close to that
unit. If one imports the list of address codes for Kaifeng above and checks the Use the XY
Reference checkbox as well as the Include Subordinate Units checkbox, one ﬁnds 
people.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Saving Results
If one has created a query that produces a list of people who one wants to reuse in other
queries—for example, if one wants to look at the kinship networks for the oﬃcials from
Kaifeng who entered government service through yin privilege—one can store the list of
people for reuse in the forms that use Person IDs as input (LookAtKinship, LookAtNetworks,
LookAtAssociationPairs).

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Simply click on the Store Person IDs button in this form and then click on the Recall
Person IDs in the other form.
If one wishes to save the results to a ﬁle readable by a GIS program, one selects the
coding for the ﬁle and clicks on the Save to GIS button at the bottom of the form. The table
is saved to a text ﬁle, by default, “entry_gis.txt.” One can specify the encoding of the text ﬁle
as either GB or UTF-.
CBDB results also can be saved in KML format, the standard for importing CBDB query
results into Google Earth.

Starting with user interface version BF, CBDB now also allows one to save the results
of a search to a set of ﬁles that can be opened with Neoj or other graph databases (see
https://neoj.com/developer/graph-database/ ). One selects the encoding and then clicks on
Save to Neoj. For the Kaifeng search in our example, the program creates seven .csv
(“comma-separated values”) ﬁles:
EntryCode_UTF.csv
KinshipCodes_UTF.csv
People_UTF.csv
PeopleEntry_UTF.csv
PeoplePlaces_UTF.csv
PeoplePlaceCodes_UTF.csv
Places_UTF.csv
The seven ﬁles create graph representations of the various aspects of the data created through
the search.
All the search forms support output to Neoj but vary in the number of ﬁles created,
depending on the nature of the data collected through the forms’ queries.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

D. Using the Form “Query Associations”
LookAtAssociations allows one to look at the people who have participated in particular
associations or categories of associations. After opening the form, one clicks on “Select
Association” to choose the type of association one wants to investigate.

There are over four hundred categories of associations, so CBDB allows one to pick by type
and subtype.



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Consider the “Scholarship” associations from the list on the left. Under “Scholarship” there
are seven subtypes. The subtype “intellectual aﬃliations” in turn has seventeen categories of
associations. As with selecting entry codes, one can select the relevant codes.

One also can select all of the subtypes simply by clicking on the “Select All” command button
at the top and then clicking on the “Select” button at the bottom center:

Note that, as with entry, one can search for terms in the table of associations in both English
and Chinese (using the search box at the bottom right corner) and search again if the ﬁrst item
found is not what you are looking for. In the screenshot below, I have selected all intellectual
aﬃliation associations () as the subtype of association. I then chose the year between  and
 (), and ran the query ():

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



1

2

3

Although dates are a part of the ASSOC_DATA table, we do not have date information for
most associations, and LookAtAssociations uses the index year of the individuals to see
whether they fall within the speciﬁed beginning and end dates.
Using the index year of people, however, introduces a signiﬁcant limitation at the same
time that it allows one to focus on speciﬁc timeframes: people for whom CBDB does not have
an index year simply disappear from the results. This CBDB allows one to search without
using the index years by unchecking the Use Index Years box directly below the input boxes
for years:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Note that the results rise from  to . One can sort on index years after doing the search
to look for the relevant associations.
The Associations table in LookAtAssociations has  columns to display the types
of information recorded in theASSOC_DATA table:
Name (Pinyin)
Name (Chinese)
Index Year
Sex
Associated Person’s Name (Pinyin)
Associated Person’s Name (Chinese)
Associated Person’s Index Year
Associated Person’s Sex
Association Category (English)
Association Category (Chinese)
Association Count
Address (English)
Address (Chinese)
X-coordinate
Y-coordinate
Associate’s Address (English)
Associate’s Address (Chinese)
Associate’s X-coordinate
Associate’s Y-coordinate
Kinship Relation (English)
Kinship Relation (Chinese)
Kin Name (pinyin)
Kin Name (Chinese)
Associate’s Kinship Relation (English)
Associate’s Kinship Relation (Chinese)
Associate’s Kin Name (pinyin)
Associate’s Kin Name (Chinese)
Index Year Type (English)
Index Year Type (Chinese)
Dynasty (Pinyin)
Dynasty (Chinese)
Associate Index Year Type (English)
Associate Index Year Type (Chinese)
Associate Dynasty (Pinyin)
Associate Dynasty (Chinese)
Distance
Index Type Code
Dynasty Code
Associate Index Type Code
Associate Dynasty Code

This gives the number of objects or events that
established the association
This is the index place, if known.
These are the coordinates for the address above.

The next four columns are for associations created
through actions for the sake of a kin

The next four columns are for associations created
through actions for the sake of the associate’s kin

If CBDB has the coordinates for the place identiﬁcation
for both people, it calculates the great-circle arc distance
between them (in kilometers).

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



In addition to the table of associations, LookAtAssociations also provides a table listing all
the people involved in the association one is investigating. One views this table simply by
clicking on the People in Association tab. This table provides information about association
with place.
This table has  columns:
Name (pinyin)
Name (Chinese)
Index Year
Index Year Type (English)
Index Year Type (Chinese)
Dynasty (Pinyin)
Dynasty (Chinese)
Sex
Index Place (pinyin)
Index Place (Chinese)
Index Place Type (English)
Index Place Type (Chinese)
X-coordinate
Y-coordinate
XY-count
Person ID
Index Year Type Code
Dynasty Code
Index Place Type Code

One can save the address information for display through a GIS program by clicking on the
Save to GIS. Since association data provides an implicit social network linking the groups of
people connected by the category of association being examined, one can save the network for

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



analysis in the Pajek format, for example, by clicking on the Save to Pajek button. Pajek is
one standard format for visualization in social network analysis (SNA). In addition data can be
saved to Gephi or UCINet, and many programs can read it and convert it to other formats.
CBDB allows ﬁles for both GIS programs and for Pajek to be saved in diﬀerent text encodings
to enable the use of Chinese characters. Note that there is an option to include the Person ID
with the node information in the Pajek ﬁles. Finally, one can also save the data to Neoj ﬁles.
Search by Place
Like the LookAtEntry form, LookAtAssociations allows one to look at associations for
people from a particular place or from a particular list of places.
Like the LookAtEntry form, LookAtAssociations has an option when searching for
a speciﬁc place: search by XY Reference. One uses the XY coordinates of the selected
administrative unit(s) to locate other units through the speciﬁed time span whose coordinates
are close to those of selected place(s). In LookAtAssociations, one choose either a narrow
bounding box to deﬁne administrative units close to the units one has chosen, or one can
choose a slightly larger box that may include additional units by clicking on the radio button
labelled Broad under the “Use XY References” check box. This feature is particularly useful
when administrative units change name in a way that cannot be caught by simply ﬁltering by
name. In this case, CBDB uses the Kaifeng administrative unit in the Northern Song, and it
turns out that the results are the same if one chooses either “Narrow” or “Broad:”

Like all other tables, LookAt Associations allows one to store the results of a query for later use
in another form. One clicks on the “Store Person IDs” button.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



E. Using the Form “Query Oﬃces Holding”
The bureaucratic system of imperial China was complex, and it evolved over time. As a result,
CBDB at present has over six thousand oﬃce codes and will certainly have many more as the
database extends its coverage to all of pre-modern China. Thus a central challenge in oﬀering
a useful approach to the examination of people’s roles in oﬃce is how to aggregate the plethora
of oﬃces into larger units for analysis. LookAtOﬃce provides both hierarchical and
functional groupings. When one opens LookAtOﬃce, it looks much like the other simple
analytic forms. One clicks on the Select Oﬃce button on the top left to begin.

Selecting the Offices
The “Select Oﬃce” form displays a tree of oﬃce categories. The ﬁrst node, “Bureaucratic
Structure” shows the organizational hierarchy organized by dynasty. One can view—and
select—the oﬃces at any level of structure. The ﬁrst form shows all the oﬃces associated with
the Supply Commissioner at the circuit level.
One also can search for particular terms. Because there are not yet tree structures to
explore bureaucratic organization of dynasties other than the Tang, Song, and Yuan, ﬁltering
by the Chinese term (most records do not yet have English equivalents) is the best way to ﬁnd
particular oﬃces in other dynasties. Filtering for “salt” 鹽 (see the second form below) lists all
titles of oﬃces in all dynasties. One can scroll up (the form initially goes to the last record in the
table) to ﬁnd the Tang dynasty oﬃces. As in other forms, one can pick more than one oﬃce
title.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

Oﬃces in the Supply Commissioner’s Oﬃce in the Song Dynasty

A Tang oﬃce containing the character 鹽 (“salt”)

The ﬁlter allows one to select related oﬃces across dynastic boundaries. One can select
individual oﬃces related to salt, or one can select all oﬃces.



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

Cross-dynastic Oﬃce Selection
One can use the ﬁlter for oﬃce names to ﬁnd a set of oﬃces that crosses dynastic
boundaries and, therefore, allows one to make cross-dynastic comparisons. For example, one
can search for all the Grand Empress Dowagers:

Selecting these oﬃce titles, one can locate all the women in CBDB who served as Grand
Empress Dowager:



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

Saving, Editing and Importing Lists of Oﬃces
Because of the complexity of oﬃce structure—and especially structures across dynastic
boundaries, CBDB provides a way to build reusable lists of oﬃces that one might want to
investigate. One begins by selecting an initial set of oﬃces: for example, the Song dynasty
oﬃces in the Vice Grand Councilor’s Oﬃce:

One can save this list by clicking on the Save Oﬃces button:

This command opens a “Save File” dialog box:



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

Once one has saved the ﬁle (as a text ﬁle), one can edit it in the usual manner:

The ﬁle begins with the oﬃce ID, then a <Tab> character, then the rest of the information.
Lists of oﬃce IDs from diﬀerent ﬁles can be combined and imported back into the form.



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Clicking the button will open an “Open ﬁle” dialog box:

The form then displays “[[Imported List]],” and one can run a query using the list:

Querying Office
The form below shows a query selecting all postings to oﬃces associated with the Vice Grand
Councilor in CBDB and does not use either index years or dynasties. Because at present oﬃce
codes are tied to dynasty, in fact all the results are from the Song (although one can use ﬁltering by
oﬃce name to create a cross-dynastic list of oﬃce codes):

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



The query generates two tabbed pages of results. The ﬁrst, Oﬃce Postings, displays
information about all the postings to the oﬃces being examined. The second, People in
Oﬃce, lists the people who were appointed to the oﬃces. This list of people is particularly
useful if one wishes to then import it into the LookAtNetworks form to explore the social
networks connecting the people who held a particular oﬃce. (One clicks on the square in the
upper left corner to select all the records, copies them (Ctrl-c), and pastes them to a text ﬁle.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



If one sets a time ﬁlter to the Ming dynasty for oﬃces from the Song dynasty, as expected, one
gets no results:

One can also set a ﬁlter for a range of years for which appointments to selected oﬃces
were made. It turns out that this option is most useful for the Ming, where data on years for
oﬃce postings is more abundant. Without limiting the years, CBDB ﬁnds  postings for:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

Adding the ﬁlter limits the results to the years - to  postings:

If one wishes to look at people who held oﬃce at a particular place or places, the form allows
the user to select a place through the procedures discussed above. One can select a single
place, use a ﬁlter for name, or import a list of address IDs. Then one runs the query in the
usual way. Below is a query about the people who served in prefectural oﬃces in Wuzhou 婺
州 during the Song dynasty.



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



One can also explore where people from a particular place (or list of places) held particular
types of oﬃce. Below is a query about where people from Kaifeng held prefectural oﬃce
during the Song dynasty.

And one can combine the two restrictions and explore who from Kaifeng served in prefectural
oﬃce in Wuzhou during the Song:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Exporting to GIS
Because one might want to look at the spatial distribution of either the postings or the people
who held the posts, the LookAtOﬃce form provides ways to save both to ﬁles that can be
read by GIS software. One can specify either UTF- or GB encoding at the bottom left
of the form:

Note that if the results do not have any place information with X-Y coordinates, then one
cannot save information to a GIS ﬁle. For example, the oﬃce records for Vice GrandCounselor Oﬃces does not have any coordinates associated with them because the oﬃce
location is simply “Song Dynasty.”
As in all othr forms, one can save the results to a set of CSV (comma-separated values)
files for use with Neoj.
The table “Oﬃce Postings” has  ﬁelds:
Person Name (pinyin)
Person Name (Chinese)
Index Year
Sex (M or F)
Person Index Address Type (English)
Person Index Address Type (Chinese)
Person Index Address (pinyin)
Person Index Address (Chinese)
X coordinate of Person Index Address
Y coordinate of Person Index Address
Oﬃce (translation)
Oﬃce (Chinese)

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis
First year of appointment
Last year of appointment
Dynasty (Pinyin) (useful in cases where the years are very uncertain)
Dynasty (Chinese)
Oﬃce Address (pinyin)
Oﬃce Address (Chinese)
X coordinate of Oﬃce Address
Y coordinate of Oﬃce Address
XY count (number of postings) for the Oﬃce Address
Notes
Person ID
Posting ID
Oﬃce Code
Appointment type (regular, provisional, etc.)
Information on assumption of oﬃce (accepted, declined, etc.)
Oﬃce Address ID
Person Address ID
Dynasty Code

The table “People in Oﬃce” contains the usual information about people:
Person ID
Person Name (pinyin)
Person Name (Chinese)
Index Year
Sex
Dynasty (Pinyin)
Dynasty (Chinese)
Index Address ID
Index Address (pinyin)
Index Address (Chinese)
X coordinate of Index Address
Y coordinate of Index Address
Index Address Type (English)
Index Address Type (Chinese)
XY count (number of people) for the Index Address



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



F. Using the Form “Query Kinship”
Queries involving kinship are more complex than queries examining categories of association
or modes of attaining eligibility for oﬃce. Since the information on kinship for an individual
usually contains just a few records, CBDB begins with those records and then looks at the
kinship information available for all the kin listed for the initial person. CBDB repeats this
search for the kin, the kin of the kin, the kin of the kin of the kin, and so on, until speciﬁed
criteria are met. First is simply a limit to the number of search iterations to allow. Usually
 loops are adequate. Second are limits on the distance of the kinship relations being
examined:
Max. Ancestor Gen. speciﬁes how many generations of ancestors to include. One’s
father’s generation is ; the grandfather is , great-grandfather , and so on.
Max. Descend. Gen. speciﬁes how many generations of descendants to include.
One’s children’s generation is , grandchildren , great-grandchildren , and so
on.
Max. Collateral Kin limits how many horizontal moves are allowed. For example,
one’s wife’s sister has one unit of “marriage” distance and one unit of
“collateral” distance. One’s wife’s sister’s husband’s brother has two units of
“marriage” distance and two units of “collateral” distance.
Max. Marriage Dist. limits how many links deﬁned by marriage are allowed in the
search. One’s wife’s sister’s husband has two units of “marriage” distance.
To visualize these distinctions, consider the partial kinship network:

Huang Maozong

Li Dong

Huang Shi

Huang Yu

Huang Lian

Ms. Huang

Yu Hong

Huang Shu

Huang Tingjian

Ms. Li

Li Bu

Li Cui

Huang Shuda

Huang Xiang

Huang Ran

Ms. Huang

Du Shenlao

For Huang Tingjian, the squares and ovals with thick lines show direct lineal descent (fathers
and mothers, sons and daughters). The double lines are marriage links. All other single lines

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



mark collateral relations. In the measurement system used in LookAtKinship:
Huang Yu 黃育
Yu Hong 余宏
Li Cui 李萃
Du Shenlao 杜莘老

is FFBS
is FFBSDH
is MB
is SDH

(Up = , Down = , Collateral = )
(Up = , Down = , Collateral = , Marr. = )
(Up = , Collateral = , Marr. = )
(Down = , Marr. = )

Because LookAtNetwork keeps looking through a very large table of kinship relations until the
distance limits are reached, the kinship table produced by the search can grow very large.
Therefore please note:
WARNING: searching for extended degrees of collateral and marriage
distance may result in a very large dataset

Please note that when one searches, CBDB automatically simpliﬁes a small group of relations
created by concatenating relationships through iterative searches (B = Brother; D = Daughter;
S = Son; Z = Sister):
BB  B
BZ  Z
ZB  B
ZZ  Z
SB  S
SZ  D
DB  S
DZ  D
These simpliﬁcations reduce the collateral distance by .
CBDB also provides a more experimental option for simplifying concatenated kinship terms
that the user should use with caution. The user can activate a CBDB kinship simpliﬁcation
algorithm by clicking on the Simplify Kinship Terms check box. (Appendix D lists the
kinship terms simpliﬁed by the CBDB algorithm.) When one clicks on this option, CBDB
warns that this approach should be double-checked:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

Another standard concern in Chinese kinship studies is to examine the so-called “mourning
circle” deﬁned by ﬁve degrees of kinship relation. LookAtKinship allows one to simply click
on the “Mourning Circle” check-box to reconstruct what is known in the database about kin
who are part of an individual’s mourning circle. When one selects “Mourning circle,”
however, the four limit parameters are preset and therefore deactivated.

To examine kinship relations, one ﬁrst selects the person or group of people whose kinship
networks one seeks to explore. There are three diﬀerent ways to select people. First is to
recall an individual person (from the Browser) or group of people stored in the database as
the result of an earlier query (see LookAtEntry for an example of storing the list). If the



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



“Recall Person IDs” button is enabled, this means that there is a person ID or group of IDs
created earlier that can be used now.

When one clicks on “Recall Person IDs,” the form either loads the person (if there is just one
ID) or the list of ID (and displays “[Recalled List]”) in the box for the selected person’s name.
One then sets the desired parameters and runs the query.
The second approach is through importing a list of people sharing common
characteristics identiﬁed by other queries. For example, one could start with people in the
Song dynasty who became eligible for oﬃce through a legal examination. One copies the
results of the LookAtEntry query to a Word or Excel ﬁle, edits the results, and copies the
person IDs to a text ﬁle.
Note that this is a change from earlier versions of the program. The text ﬁle
should contain nothing more than a list of person IDs and needs to be in ANSI
text formatting.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



After one clicks on the Import People command button, selects the ﬁle, and
LookAtKinship successfully reads the ﬁle, the form will look like:

One then sets the desired parameters and runs the query.
The third approach is the simplest and most direct: one clicks on the “Select Person”
command button on the top left corner, which will open a search form. One can search for a
person using either Chinese characters or pinyin. As in the Browser search function, the form
looks not only at formal names (姓名) but also all the alternative names used for people. Thus,
if one enters Su Dongpo 蘇東坡, the form will correctly locate the record for Su Shu 蘇軾.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Once one has selected the person, one sets the search limits (or chooses the Mourning Circle)
and clicks the Run Query command button to start the search.
When the search ﬁnishes, there are two tables one can examine. The ﬁrst, Kinship
Network, lists all the kinship relations discovered through the search:

This table has  columns:

Name (pinyin)
Name (Chinese)
Kin Name (pinyin)
Kinship Relation
Index Address of Person (pinyin)
Index Address of Person (Chinese)
X-Coordinate
Y-Coordinate
Index Address of Kin (pinyin)
Index Address of Kin (Chinese)
X-Coordinate of Kin Index Address
Y-Coordinate of Kin Index Address
Notes
Index Address Type

Kin Name (Chinese)
Index Year of Kin
Sex of Kin
Index Address Type (Chinese)
Address Type of Kin Index Address
Address Type of Kin Index Address (Chinese)
Distance (great-circle distance between the addresses)
Person ID
Kin ID
Index Year Type (English)
Index Year Type (Chinese)
Kin Index Year Type (English)
Kin Index Year Type (Chinese)

The second table, Ego-Relative Kinship, describes the kinship relation between each person
in the ﬁrst table and the person selected at the very beginning:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



For example, Chao Buzhi 晁補之 is Su Shi’s third son’s second daughter’s husband’s mother’s
brother (SDHMB) with a metric of {,,,}. The path one traverses to reach Chao
Buzhi’s younger brother Chao Jiangzhi 晁將之 is ﬁrst to locate Chao Buzhi and then ﬁnd all
of Chao Buzhi’s brothers. Their metrics would then be that of Chao Buzhi, {,,,} + one
more collateral step, for the result {,,,}, which would exceed the search parameter for
collateral distance, set to just . However, the search algorithm automatically reduces BB (in
SDHMB+B) to B, since they, as Chao Buzhi’s brothers, are also brothers to the husband’s
mother. They then fall within the  collateral link distance and are included in the search
results. (The “Ego-Relative Kinship” table has an additional column that gives a raw path that
shows how CBDB simpliﬁed the kinship relations, but, as explained above, CBDB simpliﬁes
only the simplest relations (e.g., BZ  Z). More complex simpliﬁcations require
correspondingly complex algorithm that CBDB does not implement.)
As is true for all the other tables in all the other forms, if one clicks on the upper left
corner of either table in this form, one can select all the records in the table, which then can be
cut and pasted into other programs. Also, right-clicking on any of the column headings allows
one to sort on that column.
Finally, one can export the kinship data to four diﬀerent types of ﬁles. The ﬁrst three
are diﬀerent formats of Social Network Analysis (SNA) ﬁles: UCINet (), Gephi (), and
Pajek () with various character code options and the option to include ID in the labels. For
Gephi and UCINet, the program can also remove zero-degree nodes, those nodes without
connections to any other nodes. (This sometimes occurs when one imports a list of people to
search for, and some of those people have no kinship information in CBDB.) The fourth type
of ﬁle is for GIS visualization: the program can save the ﬁle as a ﬁle readable GIS software ()
or in KML format with two diﬀerent code options. The output includes the xy_count ﬁeld,
which is the count of the number of people associated with a particular set of coordinates. This ﬁeld is very
useful as a parameter for displaying results in GIS software. Note that the form allows one to
exclude the ego-records in the GIS output. When one has searched for the kinship network of a

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



single, selected person, checking this box just removes the selected person from the output
with little impact on the results. However, if one looks for the kinship networks of a list of
people, including the people on the list can distort the data, and especially the xy_count, and it
may prove useful to ﬁlter those people out of the GIS data and focus only on their kin.








The default display for both nodes and edges in the Pajek output ﬁles uses color-coding to
indicate degree of distance from the target person:
Black = the target node;
Blue
= nodes at a summed kinship distance of 
Green = nodes at a summed kinship distance of 
Orange = nodes at a summed kinship distance of 
Yellow = nodes at a summed kinship distance of 
Red
= nodes at a summed kinship distance of  or more

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



G. Using the Form “Query Social Networks”
LookAtNetworks is the most powerful querying interface developed for the Access version
of CBDB. It allows the user to explore social networks deﬁned both by kinship ties and by
other forms of social relations. It allows the user to select a person or to import a list of people
produced by other queries. It similarly allows the user to start with a place or to import a list
of places. LookAtNetworks allows the user to select the particular forms of social association
to investigate, and it allows one to set the range of years to consider. As in LookAtKinship,
the queries in LookAtNetwork are iterative: the query produces an initial group of people
and then looks at the relevant connections between these people and others in the database.
Each cycle adds more people, whose associations then produce yet more people.
LookAtKinship has ﬁve metrics to limit the search, but LookAtNetworks has just two: a
maximum loop count (how many times the query iterates through the list of people), and a
maximum node distance. This distance is the number of links between a person in the network
and members of the group of people identiﬁed by the ﬁrst step in the search process. If the
user selects a particular person, then all distances are measured from that person. If one starts
with a list of people, then all the people on that list serve as starting points. If one starts with a
place or list of places, then the people initially identiﬁed as associated with that place or those
places serve as the starting points.
WARNING: Higher node distances may result in a very large dataset

NOTE: A query set at a node distance of  will result in a) all the people associated with the
selected person(s) and b) all the associations between the people in the network. This
particular kind of network is called an ego network: it is important because it sometimes
reveals that even within the network of one person there were rival networks. One can sort

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



these relationships in the query results table, and one can delete any records one does not wish
to export for further analysis.
Basic Query Functions
Running a query begins with selecting the elements to investigate.
. Begin with People
A. Select a Person
If one wants to look at the social networks which link a particular person to others, one can
click on the Select Person command button to open a form for searching for a person:

As in the Browser and the Query Kinship form, one can use courtesy names, style names
and all other forms of names to locate a person.
B. Import a List of People
A second, very useful way to consider social networks is to import a group of people
sharing common characteristics identiﬁed by other queries. For example, one could start
with people in the Song dynasty who became eligible for oﬃce through a legal
examination. One copies the results of the LookAtEntry query to a Word or Excel ﬁle,
edits the results, and copies the person IDs to a text ﬁle.
Note that this is a change from earlier versions of the program. The text ﬁle
should contain nothing more than a list of person IDs and needs to be in ANSI
text formatting.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



After one clicks on the Import People () command button, selects the ﬁle, and
LookAtNetworks successfully reads the ﬁle, the form will look like:



The two boxes that give the person’s name () will state “[Imported List] and [輸入的人
名].”
C. Recall a Person or a Group of People from a Previous Stored Search Result
The third way to select people for analysis is to recall either a single ID that was stored
from the Browser or a list of IDs saved from a previous query. One simply clicks on the
Recall Person IDs (: next page) command button. If there is just one saved ID, the
form displays the person’s name. If one recalls a list of IDs, the form displays “[Recalled
List]” and “[召回的人名]” instead of a person’s name (: next page):

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis







. Begin with Place
A. Select a Place
When one clicks on the Select Place command button, one opens a form to allow one to
select a particular place. As described in the section on LookAtEntry, , the form provides
a Filter function to select a group of addresses all beginning with a speciﬁed word or
phrase.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



B. Import a List of Places
Sometimes it is more useful to work with a set of Address IDs to precisely deﬁne the area
for which one wants to study the social networks. Importing a list of Address ID works the
same way as importing Person IDs.
Unless one clicks the Restrict to Place check box, the selection of a place or list of
places only inﬂuences the ﬁrst step of locating an initial group of people around whom to build
a social network. After the ﬁrst round of locating people with a connection to the speciﬁed
place(s), CBDB searches for the sorts of associations selected as the next part of the query
process.
If one uses both people and place as the starting point for a query, CBDB looks for
people from the speciﬁed place who had connections to the selected person or group of
people that matched the categories of association speciﬁed for the search.
C. Use XY Reference
As in the other forms, CBDB allows the one to use the longitude and latitude of the
place(s) one has selected to identify other relevant administrative units for the speciﬁed
time period. One clicks on the Use XY Reference check box to activate this feature.
. Determine the Time Period
This is straight-forward: simply ﬁll in the beginning and ending years for the index years of
people to be considered for the search.
. Select the Node Distance
One needs to be careful: the number of people found by the search procedure can grow
exponentially with the increase in node distance. It is a good practice to start conservatively
with a small node distance. In the example search discussed below, using the nine people
who became eligible for service through law examinations, a node distance of three
produces over  relationships.
. Set the Maximum Number of Iterations
The search procedure is slow with CBDB’s large dataset, and one might want to
experiment with a relatively small “Max Loop #.”
. Select Kin, Non-Kin, Male and Female
The LookAtKinship form does not allow one to look at kinship relations for a group of
people imported through a list, so LookAtNetworks provides an alternative approach to
examining kinship. One selects “Kin” and de-selects “Non-Kin.” There also may be times
when one wants to eliminate associations (kinship or social) based on females, or one may
want to examine networks strictly among women. LookAtNetworks allows the user to
select these options.
. Select Types of Non-Kinship Relations
Because there are many, many categories of non-kinship relationship, most of which are of
little importance in a particular query, one can limit the search to selected large groups of

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



associations. These are:
Friendship
Family
Religion
Finance
Medicine
Military
Scholarship
Politics
Writings

The last four types of non-kin associations have further selectable subdivisions. “Military”
has two, “Scholarship” seven, “Politics” six, and “Writings” nine. One can mix the types of
associations as one wishes. Once selected, these limits to the range of associations remain
active through the entire search process.
Once all of these decisions have been made, one runs the query. The example examined
below uses the list of people (A) who entered service through the law examination. The ﬁrst
version selects the years  through  (B) with a maximum node distance of  (C) and a
maximum loop count of  (D) but does not constrain either the kinship or the non-kinship
associations and allows all possible types of association.
A

B
C
D

The result is a network with , people participating in , relations.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Table of Associations in the Social Network

Table of People Participating in the Social Network

Many of the pairs of people in this list have more than one relationship between them, so
CBDB also produces a table in the Aggregated Social Relations tab with just one record for
each pair of people that gives the number of relations between them:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



If the network is too large, one can examine more narrowly deﬁned networks. If one looks just
at kinship relations for the group, CBDB ﬁnds  people linked through  relations (with
total node distance of  and constraints on the kinship distance for the relationships).

If one looks just at associations formed through writing with a maximum node distance of ,
excludes kinship, and uses dynasty rather than index year, CBDB discovers , relations
(with , aggregated relations) among , people:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



The results seem promising: not too many links, and not too few:

However, if one scrolls to the right in the table of results and right-clicks on the header of the
ﬁeld called “Edge Distance” to sort the records, one will discover that only the ﬁrst nine
records connect the initial group of people who became eligible for service through legal
examinations with other individuals. (These are relations with an “edge distance” of , i.e.,
directly linked to the original list.) Only ﬁve of the initial thirteen people have any associations

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



deﬁned by writings, and these links are to only seven people. Of those seven associations, ﬁve
are to people (Liu Zhi, Yang Jian, Zhu Xi, Zhang Shi, and Lou Yue) who have vast social
networks who contribute most of the relations in the social network. Thus, it perhaps is better
to return to the larger set of unrestricted relations among , people and use the tools of
social network analysis to sort through the data.

Requerying
Some users have discovered that it is useful to reuse the people identiﬁed in one query in
LookAtNetworks to serve as the basis for additional queries in the same form. For example,
the search for the kinship relations of the men who passed the law examination produced .
We can look to see if they wrote to one another by ﬁrst clicking on the Store Person IDs
command button and then directly clicking on the Recall Person IDs command button.
This loads the current results as a list of person IDs. One then restricts the non-kin
relationships to writing and reruns the query. This has the added virtue that the list of people
is now available for use in other forms as well.)

Outputting Results
LookAtNetworks provides ways to output the results of a query to three diﬀerent SNA
programs: UCINet, Pajek, and Gephi. Because Pajek supports Chinese characters, CBDB
allows the output to Pajek to be in either of three coding systems-UTF-, Big-, and GB-or in
pinyin without characters. GIS software also supports Chinese characters, but how they are
handled diﬀers depending on the regional settings of one’s computer. The default display for
both nodes and edges in the Pajek output ﬁles uses color-coding to indicate degree of distance
from the target person:
Black = the target node
Blue
= nodes at a summed distance of 
Green = nodes at a summed distance of 
Orange = nodes at a summed distance of 
Yellow = nodes at a summed distance of 
Red
= nodes at a summed distance of  or more
One also can export a set of CSV (comma-separated values) ﬁles for use with Neoj.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



H. Using the Form “Query Pair-wise Associations”
At times one wants to consider whether there were any social links between two individuals or
among members of a group of people identiﬁed through criteria other than those of kinship or
social network. One could use LookAtNetworks to generate the social network of one
person and see at what point the other person or people appear as part of the network.
However, the Access version of CBDB provides a tool to directly examine if there were any
connections without going through the general network search.






The form is simple. First one () either chooses two individuals or imports a list of people, or
recalls either a single person stored from the Browser [who becomes the “First Person”] or a list
of people from earlier, saved query results using the procedure described for other forms above,
then () the range of dynasties or index years for the people in the relations, if desired, and
ﬁnally, () the type of permissible relations. The options for relationships are:
. Allow -node Intermediaries: That is, people who are directly linked to both (or, for
imported lists, two) of the selected people: Person A — Node — Person Bl . In this case
one leaves the check box for two-node intermediaries unchecked.
. Allow -node Intermediaries: Here one allows people linked to one person who in turn
have links to people linked to the second person (or to another person on the imported list):
Person A — Node — Node — Person Bl. In this case one clicks on the check box for
two-node intermediaries to select the option.
. Include Kinship relations: The default is simply to look at social (non-kinship) relations
connecting people, but kinship also can be important, and the form allows one to examine the
role of kinship relations in the social network.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



One Node Intermediary Searches
For example, if one explores the links between Su Shi 蘇軾 and Cheng Yi 程頤, allowing only
people directly linked to both of them ﬁnds  associations among  people.

As in LookAtNetworks, the form provides two output tables: “Associations” for the
relationships, and another, “People in Associations,” for the people in the relations.

As with the other forms, one can save the results of a search by clicking on the grey square in
the upper left hand corner of the table to select all the records and then using Ctrl-C:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



One also can sort on a column of the table by clicking on the column (in this case, “Name”) to
select it, then right-clicking to choose the type of sort:

One also can select a block of records to save by clicking the mouse on the left-hand grey
column of the ﬁrst record in the block and then, with the left-click button still held down,
dragging the mouse down the grey column to the last record in the desired group:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



However, note that the entry directly below the selected block includes Dai Biaoyuan 戴表元
(-), a late Southern Song ﬁgure. If one wishes to narrow the search to intermediate
nodes who are roughly contemporaneous with the target people, one can use index years to
limit the search. (Using dynasty as a ﬁlter does not help.) If one limits the index years to a
range between  and , one ﬁnds fourteen people with  relations connecting them:

If one then includes kin of either Su Shi or Cheng Yi who have a social connection to the
other, then one discovers one additional connection but, in this case, no additional people:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

Two Node Intermediary Searches
If one broadens the search to allow two intermediary links to connect the target people, the
network becomes more complicated: The program reveals  relations among  people
with index years between  and :



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

Searches Using Lists
If one wants to look for connections within a larger group of people chosen by other criteria,
the form allows one to import a list of person IDs. Here one looks at Jinhua men who from
the Yuan dynasty who have extant collections. As in all lists for importing people, CBDB
requires a single column of IDs in ANSI encoding:

One clicks on the Import List of People command button and locates the ﬁle:



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



If the ﬁle is successfully read, the form indicates that the names are from an imported list. To
clear the list and return to selecting people through the two Select command buttons, simply
click on the Clear List of people command button.
Once one has imported the list, the search procedures are the same. In this case, the
query is set to look for one-node intermediaries with index years between  and  and
produces , associations among  people:

Output to SNA and GIS Programs
Like the other forms, LookAtAssociationPairs can generate ﬁles for use with Pajek and with
GIS visualization programs. The output tables for Associations and People are the same as
those in LookAtAssociations. Please consult the information in that section of the User’s
Guide.
Allowing the form to list all the relations between the -node and -node
intermediaries between Su Shi and Cheng Yi who have index years between  and 
intermediaries produces a network that can be imported into Pajek.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



The default display for both nodes and edges in the SNA output ﬁles uses color-coding to
indicate degree of distance from the target person and the type of connections:
Nodes
Edges
White = the target nodes;
from target nodes
Blue = nodes that serve as -node intermediaries from st order to nd order nodes
Green = nodes that serve as -node intermediaries between nd order nodes (except for
one mysterious line to Su Shi)
The output ﬁles aggregate the associations between people, and the width of the lines reﬂects
the number of associations between nodes.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



I. Using the Form “Query Place Associations”
The forms discussed above produce information about the relationship between people and
places in the contexts of kinship and social relations, oﬃce holding, and entry into
government. It may be useful to see how people and place come together in a more synoptic
view. For example, one person may have been in oﬃce at a place which was the place of
registry of the kin of a friend. This sort of drawing together of connections proves diﬃcult
without a way to aggregate information about a place over time.

Thus CBDB provides the form LookAtPlace. The form can trace seven types of relationship
to place:
. Biographical Data: was this place the index place of the person? Did he or she move
there?
. Entry Data: did the person take an examination at this place, or was this place
otherwise associated with the person’s entry into government service? (At present
CBDB has very little data on this type of relationship to place.)
. Connection via Kinship: who were the kin of people from this place?
. Connection via Association: who had associations with people from this place?
. Place of Association: what social connections were created at this place? (At present
CBDB has very little data on this type of relationship to place.)
. Oﬃce Posting Data: who held oﬃce at this place?
. Institutional Connection: who were associated with social institutions at this place?
The query below looks at Jinhua for people with index years between  and .

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



One can select which relationship to place to include in the search and can specify the usual
sorts of parameters (use of dynasty, index years and the use of XY references). As with the other
forms, one also can use a ﬁltered list of place names or import a list of address IDs.
In addition, because the categories of relationship of people to place include that may
not be relevant to the particular query, the form allows the user to select the categories of
relationship to be used in the search:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



One clicks on the Select Categories button, which opens a form. One can “Select All” and
then click on those categories to not be included, clicks on the Select button to close the form
and runs the query:

In this particular search, removing the categories eliminates just  records.
The output table has  ﬁelds:
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Person name (Pinyin)
Person name (Chinese)
Index year
Place Name (Pinyin)
Place Name (Chinese)
Associate Name (Pinyin)
Associate Name (Chinese)
First year
Last year
Category of Place Association
Relation to Place within Category (English)
Relation to Place within Category (Chinese)
X coordinate
Y-coordinate
Index Year Type (English)
Index Year Type (Chinese)
Index Year Type Code

The Category speciﬁes which of the seven types of relations to place is recorded for the person,
while the Relation gives the speciﬁc information within the category. Thus the Category of

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



“Biography” indicates the person’s immediate biographical relationship to place, and the
Relation provides the detail (“basic aﬃliation,” “moved to,” etc.). Similarly, the Category of
“Associate Place” records that the person is from the selected place, the Associate has a social
connection to the person, and Relationship provides the details of the relationship.
If one wishes to look at speciﬁc types of relationship to place, one can select the type of
relationship(s). Below is the result when one chooses Individual and Oﬃce Postings:

People may have more than one relationship to a place, and the form provides a table
that list the Aggregated People and Places relations and reveals many people with multiple
types of relationships to Jinhua:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Finally, the form provides a table that lists the people who participate in the
relationships:

At present, there are two ways to write the results of a search to a ﬁle:
a. The ﬁrst is as SNA data in Pajek, UCINet, or Gephi format. This option is available only
when one has selected Association, Associate, or Kinship.
b. The second option is to write a series of CSV ﬁles for Neoj. The number of ﬁles
produced through this option depends on the types of relationship to place the user has
selected.
If there is a need to save the data in GIS form, this functionality can be added in future
versions of the software.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



J. Using the Form “Query Status”
LookAtStatus is a recent addition to the forms for exploring the CBDB data. It allows users
to examine CBDB information on social distinctions recorded for members of the database.
As explained in Chapter , status records ways in which individuals gained reputations in
their communities. At present we have  codes divided into  categories:
Occupation
Scholarship
Military Distinction
Imperial Clan
Artistic Distinction
Religious Distinction
Life Events
Commoner Activity

事業
學術
武功
宗社
藝術
宗教
時事
布衣事

The form shares the features of the other forms. One can ﬁlter by dynasty or index year. One
can select an index place (or group of index places) to explore. And one can store the person
IDs to use in other forms.

One begins by selecting the category of status one seeks to explore. Since, at present, there are
 codes for status, the Select Status form, like the other forms, organizes the codes into
larger groups of types of status. As with the other selection forms, one can select an entire
category of status relations, or one can choose one or more speciﬁc status relations.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Below is the list of , records for social distinction through painting for individuals in the
Ming dynasty.

If one has selected just one type of status, in theory, the number of records in Status and
People should be the same. Note, however, that there are duplicate records in the Status table.
This is a bug that will be ﬁxed in the next release of the data. As the People table shows, there
are only  individuals who have status as painters in the Ming dynasty.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



One can save the IDs of the people for use in other forms by clicking on the Store Person
IDs button, and one can save the list of status codes from the query to a ﬁle for reuse later by
clicking on the Save Status button and saving the ﬁle.

The form provides output to GIS data ﬁles as well as to Neoj ﬁles, which capture the bipartite
person-status relationship (that is, people are connected as nodes to status types as nodes rather
than as people connected to other people).

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



K. Using the Form “Query Texts and Roles”
The form LookatTextRoles enables users to investigate people who have roles in the
production of premodern Chinese texts. CBDB uses the classiﬁcation of texts used in the Siku
quanshu. The roles connecting people to texts in CBDB are:
Annotator
Author
Commentator
Compiler
Donor
Editor
Editorial Associate
Proofreader
Publisher
Translator
Work included in

註疏者
撰著者
註釋者(含評點者)
編纂者
捐助者
編輯者
編輯助理
校對者
出版者
翻譯者
收入 Y 集

At present CBDB has approximately , records for people in relation to texts.
The design of LookAtTextRoles is very similar to that of other forms. It uses the
same sorts of ﬁlters: by index year, by dynasty, and by index address.

One ﬁrst selects a category of texts:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



In this example, the user selects all the texts in the category of “Rites.” In the simplest query,
one uses just the category without additional ﬁlters:

Running the query produces a list of all the role in which people participated in the production
of texts of the selected category for which CBDB has data. There are  roles in which 
people participated in producing texts on the ritual classics in the Confucian canon. In the
example, Lv Zuqian 呂祖謙 is identiﬁed as the author of the San Da li fuzhu 三大禮賦注.
The form also provides a list of all the people who participated in these roles:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



These people can be stored for further analysis using other forms by clicking on the Store
Person IDs button and can be saved to a GIS ﬁle to look at their geospatial distribution with
the Save to GIS button.
Output to a set of Neoj ﬁles by clicking on Save to Neoj gives one a way to further
explore the bipartite relationship between people and texts using Neoj.

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



L. Using the form “Looking up Data on a Group of People
As shown in the description of the other forms, CBDB allows the user to identify groups of
people according to speciﬁed characteristics. The form LookAtGroupData allows the user
then to quickly get additional data on these groups of people.

Like the other forms, the user can change the labels from English to either traditional or
simpliﬁed Chinese:

To input the group of IDs to be examined, one can either recall a stored list or import a list from a
ﬁle:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



Once one has selected the group of IDs, one then selected the types of information to explore.
The choices are:
a. status,
b. oﬃce holding,
c. mode of entry into government,
d. textual production, and
e. associations with place (In some cases, one wants to know just the index addresses for the
people in the group, and the form allows the user to select this option.)
One can, for instance, import a list of the people from Jinhua County who earned jinshi
degrees between and :

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



One selects the types of data and clicks the Search button:

The Entry table shows that some jinshi degree holders also used other paths to enter
government service in addition to the jinshi examination. Tang Zhongyou is an example.
The Status table additionally shows the range of forms of social distinction achieved by
the degree-holders. Tang Zhongyou is, again, a good example:

To save the data from the search, there are three options. One is to select the data in a
table by clicking on the small square in the upper left corner of the table and copying it:

Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis

One then can paste the data to Excel or to a text ﬁle, etc.

The second way to export the data is to save it to a set of Neoj ﬁles. The number of
ﬁles produced by the form depends on the number of categories of information one has
selected for export (see below).
The third way to export the data is to save it to a ﬁle that can be opened by GIS
software or to a KML ﬁle:



Chapter : CBDB Tools for Analysis



As with exporting to Neoj, the user selects what type of data to export and the encoding For
GIS, one also chooses the ﬁle format. When the user clicks the Export to GIS button, the
form creates a separate ﬁle for each type of information.
If the user has imported a list of IDs, this list can be saved by clicking on the Store Person
IDs button.

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques
The Access version of CBDB permits a variety of increasingly complex and powerful
approaches to analyzing the data. The ﬁrst level of advanced query simply is to use the output
from one form as the input for a second search. The next step, taken when one has become
relatively familiar with the data structures in CBDB, is to use the Access built-in Query
Design form to create free-form queries. As one’s command of the concepts of SQL
(Structured Query Language) deepens, one can create ever more sophisticated queries. This
chapter considers one example of using the output from CBDB forms as input for other
queries and then introduces the basic ideas of SQL and illustrates them through an example
that requires two steps in query design.

A. Kinship Networks for Examination Graduates in Putian, Fujian during
the Song
One question in the study of social history during the Song dynasty is whether local elites
remained stable and controlled access to the cultural resources needed to gain entrance to
oﬃcial status or whether there was in fact social mobility where marginal families managed to
join the elite stratum through the educational success of their sons. To explore this question,
one can look at the kinship structures for those who entered government service through
examinations in localities at diﬀerent times during the Song and see if there is any change in
organization. In our example, we consider Putian in Fujian during two periods: -
and -. We ﬁrst use the LookAtEntry form:












Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



The procedure is:
() Use Select Entry to choose all types in the category of “Examination” 科舉門.
() Set the range of examinations ﬁrst to -. (Here I show -.)
() Use Select Place to choose Putian 莆田 during the Song Dynasty.
() Run the Query
() Use Store Person IDs to copy the IDs of the selected people into a temporary table.
Once you have the table of the IDs of people from Putian who entered government through
examination for the speciﬁed period, open the form LookAtKinship and have the form read
the stored table of people for -:

Here, the procedure is:
() Recall the list of people IDs with the Recall Person IDs command button at the top of
the form.
() You will get conﬁrmation that the table was correctly imported when you see “[Recalled
List].”
() Set the kinship parameters to  up,  down,  collateral, and  marriage.
() After you run the query, save the results into a Pajek ﬁle that uses UTF- encoding. Set
the output to not include -degree nodes (nodes with no connections to other nodes).
() Repeat the process for the people from - and create a second Pajek ﬁle.
Open your Social Network program and “Draw” the results. In this example we use Pajek:

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



The initial layout for visualizing networks in Pajek is “Circular.” A more useful layout for
looking at groups of kinship networks is to select “Separate Components” in the “KamadaKawai” layout listings.
When one select and closely looks at the components of the kinship networks for men
from Putian who passed an examination for the years - and -, one gets:

Putian Examination Kinship Networks, -

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



Putian Examination Kinship Networks, -
Note that by the later period, the “principal component” (the largest component in the
network) has grown to include not only a Fang 方, Chen 陳, and Lin 林 clan, but also
members of Zheng 鄭 and Gu 顧 clans. The Song 宋 surname largely has disappeared. In the
diagrams, the white nodes are the men who passed the examinations, and the blue squares are
their kin.

B. Using the Access Query Designer
Another extremely powerful capacity built into Access is the ability to design SQL queries to
look at the CBDB data from whatever angle you wish. There are a few concepts to master, but
the Query Designer in Access allows end-users to begin to explore the data without any
knowledge of SQL (Structured Query Language). As you become more familiar with
queries, you can learn more about the formalisms to help you work with the data better.
In order to use the Query Designer, you will need some knowledge of the tables in
CBDB and their relations to one another. We have simpliﬁed some of the tasks by creating a
set of tables that are “denormalized,” that is, where we have added descriptive ﬁelds to explain
the codes in the ﬁelds that rely on IDs. For example, the table BIOG_ADDR_DATA records
lists of places associated with individuals: where they were born, where their “basic aﬃliation”
was, where they moved, where they were buried, etc. The key information for each record,
however, is a set of three codes: a person ID, an address ID, and an address type ID. We have
created a second table, ZZZ_BIOG_ADDR_DATA, that takes information from other
tables (BIOG_MAIN, ADDR_CODES, BIOG_ADDR_CODES) to give the name of the
person, the name of the place, and the description of the type of address, along with other

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



useful data. Using these tables with descriptions and codes simpliﬁes the task of building a
useful query. The tables are:
. ZZZ_ALT_NAME_DATA
(ﬁlls in alternate name type)
. ZZZ_BIOG_ADDR_DATA
(ﬁlls in address and address type)
. ZZZ_BIOG_MAIN
(ﬁlls in nianhao, ethnicity)
. ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA
(ﬁlls in entry type)
. ZZZ_KIN_BIOG_ADDR
(this is the table for kinship, but it also provides the main entry for biographical
address)
. ZZZ_NONKIN_BIOG_ADDR
(this is the table for associations, but it also provides the main entry for biographical
address)
. ZZZ_POSTED_TO_ADDR_DATA
(ﬁll in address information)
. ZZZ_POSTED_TO_OFFICE_DATA
(ﬁlls in oﬃce information)
. ZZZ_TEXT_DATA
(ﬁlls in text data)

I. An Example:
The mode of entry into government of near kin of the successful jinshi
degree candidates of the  examination
How might one use an SQL query to determine how many of the people who passed the jinshi
examination in  (for which we have a complete list) had close relatives who had entered
government service?
. In the Create menu (next to the Home tab at the top of the main screen) , Select Query
Design:

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



In the “Show Table” window, select ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA and click Add
. Double-click on c_personid, c_entry_code, and c_year to add them to the query.
Unclick the “Show” check-box for c_entry_code so that you can next specify a value but
have the ﬁeld not appear in the results of the query, since in every record, the value of the
ﬁeld will be the same.

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



. Then in “Criteria” specify the value  for c_entry_code (jinshi), and the year .

. Check the results by right-clicking on the top border of the Query form and switching to
Datasheet View:

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



. There are  records. (Please note that as CBDB adds data, these results will change.)

. Now add the kinship table ZZZ_KIN_BIOG_ADDR by clicking on Show Table along
the Query Tools menu at the top of the screen and select ZZZ_KIN_BIOG_ADDR from the
"Show Table" window:
a. Create a link between the two tables by clicking on c_personid in
ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA and dragging it to the c_personid in ZZZ_KIN_BIOG_ADDR.
The query builder may ask you to conﬁrm that you want to select only those pairs of
records from the two tables which share the same person IDs.
b. From the kinship table, add the following ﬁelds:
c_person_name_chn (the name of the person identiﬁed by c_personid)
c_node_id (the ID of the relative)
c_node_chn (the name of the relative)
c_upstep (the number of generations up in the kinship relation)
c_dwnstep (the number of generations down in the kinship relation)
c_marstep (the number of marriage relations involved in the kinship relation)
c_colstep (the number of brother/sister relations involved in the kinship relation)
c_link_desc (the English description of the kinship relation)
c_link_chn (the Chinese description of the kinship relation)
c. Set the limit for generations up (c_upstep) to  (i.e., FF, FFB, etc.)
Set the limit for generations down (c_dwnstep) to  (i.e, we want to look only at
ancestors)
Set the limit for aﬃnes (c_marstep) to 

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques

Set the limit for brother/sister (c_colstep) to at most 
d. Repeat this process, but allow cousins (i.e. FBS or FFBS:  down step, at least  up)

. Check the results: There are  relatives that meet the criteria



Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



. Now add a second version of the ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA table and link that table to the
ZZZ_KIN_BIOG_ADDR table by making c_node_id = c_personid:

. Add the two ﬁelds c_entry_desc and c_entry_desc_chn from ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA_ (to
get the mode of entry of the kin) and check the results:

 kin from the  initial degree recipients have data on how they entered oﬃcialdom

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



. Simply adding a  to the c_marstep will allow one to look at aﬃnal relations as well. Using
the criterion “<” means that a c_marstep of either  or  in the record will be acceptable:

This produces  additional records for a total of .

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



II. Some Useful Additional Procedures for Queries
A. Null Information can be Useful
In the above query, we dealt only with those relatives for whom information about their mode
of entering government service was known. Suppose, however, that we wanted a list of all the
relatives as well as the available information about their mode of entering service. Such a list
helps clarify the percentage for whom we have data.
Our initial design looked like:

We need to change the way Access selects its records. To do this we need to modify
the link between the entry data for the kin and the kin themselves, which we created by
equating c_node_id (i.e., the ID for the kin) in ZZZ_KIN_BIOG_ADDR with c_personid in
ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA_, the second copy of ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA you added to the query.
ZZZ_KIN_BIOG_ADDR. c_node_id = ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA_. c_personid
To modify that link, double-click on the line connecting c_node_id and c_personid. This will
open a dialog box:

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



Select option  and click OK. Note the arrow pointing to c_personid. This arrow indicates a
“left join” in the language of SQL. This left join includes all the records from
ZZZ_KIN_BIOG_ADDR (the left table) that match the other query criteria as well as the
ﬁelds from ZZZ_ENTRY_DATA_ (the right table) where there is a match in kin IDs and
entry IDs. (Left and Right are determined by the order in which the tables are linked.)
When we execute the query, we get records for all the initial  kin.
B. The TablesFields Table
For getting information on additional people involved in various types of social interactions,
you need to know which ﬁelds in a table refer to IDs for people. When in doubt, you can open
the TablesFields table from the list of tables on the left of the main Access interface and look
for the ﬁelds in the table you want to explore. Those that have “BIOG_MAIN” in the
“foreign key” column and “c_personid” in the ForeignKeyBase column refer to people. 2 For
example, in ASSOC_DATA, we have:

2

In a normalized database, “foreign key” simply refers to those ﬁelds that use the IDs deﬁned (as primary keys) in
other tables.

Chapter : Advanced Query Techniques



Among all these, the following are IDs of people:
c_assoc_claimer_id (the ID of the person claiming the existence of the association)
c_assoc_id (the ID of the associate)
c_assoc_kin_id (the ID of the kin of the associate through who the association exists,
if any)
c_kin_id (the ID of the kin of the main person in the record through who the association
exists, if any)
c_personid (the person whom the record is about)

Appendices
Appendix A: Installing the MS Access Files
In order to keep the database ﬁles within the two gigabyte limit for Microsoft Access ﬁles,
CBDB is divided into four ﬁles: three “Base” ﬁles with the tables of data, and a “User” ﬁle
with the user interface. The User ﬁle draws on the tables in the Base ﬁles as “linked tables.”
When you install the CBDB ﬁles, the Access program will automatically create the links
between the User and Base ﬁles that you have installed in a shared directory. If that link fails
or you need to recreate the link when you download new data ﬁles, the Navigation pane
provides a way to recreate the links.
To install the MS Access database
. Create a folder into which to extract the four ﬁles that you have downloaded from the
CBDB website. Extract the ﬁles.
. Double-click on the User ﬁle to open it in Microsoft Access. You will see:

Note the arrows next to most of the tables in the list on the left side of the screen. The arrow
indicates that the table is a linked table from the Base ﬁles.
. Double-click on any linked table, and if the table is successfully linked, it will open.
If the link is broken, you will see the message:



Appendix A: Installing the MS Access Files



. If you get an error message, double-check that the three data ﬁles are in the same directory
as the User ﬁle. If they are, write down the name of one of the data ﬁles, e.g.
CBDB__DATA.mdb. The date “” (in YYYYMMDD format) gives
the date of the data release.
. Next, click on the “Relink Tables” command button in the Navigation Pane. This will
open a form that will ask for the date of the data release:

Write the date into the form and click “OK.” The form will relink the tables.
. The User ﬁle is now ready to use.

Appendix B: Updating the Visual Basic Environment (if necessary)
Adding References
CBDB uses a variety of Visual Basic resources that are not part of the default MS Access Visual
Basic environment. If your eﬀort to run a routine produces an error about an undeﬁned VB
object, you may need to double-check the “References” used by Visual Basic.
To do this:
. Under “Database Tools” in the main Access window, select Visual Basic. This will launch
the Visual Basic editor.
. In the VB editor, click on the menu item “Tools” and then “References…” You will see
something like:

. If you do not see the same references checked, please scroll down the list and make your
“References” list match this one. You may encounter a complaint about duplicated
resources. In that case, you will see that your initial checked list has components that are not
on this list. Uncheck them and try again.

Adding TreeView to Visual Basic
If your copy of Access gives you an error when you try to select an oﬃce in LookAtOﬃces or
select an association in LookAtAssociations, this is because you do not have a ﬁle
(MSCOMTL.ocx) added to your Visual Basic environment.
To Fix:


Appendix B: Updating the Visual Basic Environment


. Under “Database Tools” in the main Access window, select Visual Basic. This will launch
the Visual Basic editor.
. In the VB editor, click on the menu item “Tools” and then “References…” You will see
something like:

. If you see “Microsoft Windows Common Controls . (SP),” then your problem may
something else. Please uncheck the check box, close the window, exit the VB editor, close
Access, then reopen Access, return to the editor, and go to step  below. If this does not let
TreeView work, please let us know.
. If you do NOT see the line, please scroll down the list. If you ﬁnd the line, click on it to
check the box. Click OK.
. If you do not ﬁnd the Common Controls . on the list, you will need to add it.
a. Click on “Browse…”
b. If you are using Windows , go to the subdirectory SysWOW in the Windows
directory.
If you are using Windows XP, go to the subdirectory System.
c. Change the “Files of type” to: “ActiveX Controls (*.ocx)”
d. You should see:

Appendix B: Updating the Visual Basic Environment


e. Click on “MSCOMCTL.OCX”
f. Click on “Open”
g. Make sure the check-box for Common Controls . is checked in the References
window, then click “OK.”
. If you do not ﬁnd MSCOMCTL.OCX in SysWOW, you will need to add it.
a. The CBDBPatch.rar ﬁle that you downloaded from the CBDB website contains a copy
of the OCX ﬁle as well as these instructions.
b. Copy the ﬁle MSCOMCTL.OCX to C:\WINDOWS\SysWOW
c. Now you will need to register the ﬁle:
. Click on the Windows “Start” Button.
. Select “All Programs” and then “Accessories”
. Right-click on “Command Prompt” and click on “Run as Administrator.”
. Click “yes” when the system asks you if it can proceed.
. In the Command Prompt window, type:
REGSVR32 C:\Windows\sysWOW64\MSCOMCTL.OCX
. Hit “Enter” to run the program.
. Close the Command Prompt window.
d. Now perform the steps listed in () - () on the ﬁrst page.
. To exit the Visual Basic Editor, click on the menu item “File” and then on “Close and
Return to Microsoft Access.”

Appendix C: Installing the SQLite CBDB database on a Macintosh
For Apple users (or Linux users, who probably do not need these instructions), there is a
stand-alone version of the CBDB database using the SQLite format.
For any database ﬁle to be used in a Macintosh system, the operating system needs a
connector between the ﬁle and the standard ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) interface.
In order to make this connection, you will need the Mac ODBC Administrator and the
ODBC driver for SQLite. (You may need to download these from the web, or you may
decide to leave these steps to your information technology specialist, if you have access to one.
The ODBC driver for SQLite can be downloaded from http://www.chwerner.de/sqliteodbc/ ).
. Install the Macintosh ODBC Administrator and the driver for SQLite.
. In “Finder,” go to Utilities and open the ODBC Administrator.
. Go to User DSN and add “CBDBFull” as an SQLite database:

. Click on “Conﬁgure” to set up the connector:



Appendix C: Installing SQLite CBDB on the Mac

. Add the keyword “database” and use the full path for the database ﬁle as the “value.”
. Click on OK. The window will close. Then click on Apply.
. The SQLite version of CBDB should be ready to use with OpenOﬃce or whatever
software interface you prefer.



Appendix D: Kinship Simpliﬁcation Table
Simpliﬁcations that are applied in all Searches:
Kinship Term
BB
BZ
DB
DZ
SB
ZB
ZZ

Male/Female/Both
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

Simplified Kinship term
B
Z
S
D
S
B
Z

Simplifications that are applied when the user requests algorithmic
Kinship Term
BDF
BDM
BF
BM
BSF
BSM
DDF
DDM
DF
DF
DM
DM
DSF
DSM
FBF
FD
FD
FDF
FDM
FFD
FFS
FS
FS
FSF
FSM
FW
FZF
HD
HDF

Male/Female/Both
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
F
M
F
M
B
B
B
F
M
B
B
B
B
F
M
B
B
B
B
F
F

Simplified Kinship term
B
BW
F
M
B
BW
DH
D
H

-

W
DH
D
FF
Z
Z
F
M
FZ
FB
B
B
F
M
M
FF
D
H



Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB

HDM
HS
HSF
HSM
HW
MD
MD
MDF
MDM
MH
MS
MS
MSF
MSM
SDF
SDM
SF
SF
SM
SM
SSF
SSM
SZ
WD
WDF
WDM
WH
WS
WSF
WSM
ZDF
ZDM
ZF
ZM
ZSF
ZSM

F
F
F
F
F
F
M
B
B
B
F
M
B
B
B
B
F
M
F
M
B
B
B
M
M
M
M
M
M
M
B
B
B
B
B
B



-

S
H

-

Z
Z
F
M
F
B
B
F
M
S
SW
H

-

W
S
SW
D
D

-

W

-

S

-

W
ZH
Z
F
M
ZH
Z

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



Appendix E. Change Log for CBDB
The Access version of CBDB was signiﬁcantly reorganized with the AW release: the data and
the querying interface are now completely separate and can be updated independently. For all
more recent releases, changes in the data and in the interface are reported separately.
Versions:
CBDB SQL Server Version 1
Announcement
We are delighted to announce the introduction of CBDB_SS, a version of CBDB that is
identical to Version BC in its appearance and functionality, except that the data for
CBDB is now stored on a SQL Server Express database platform. SQL Server does not
have the limitation in ﬁle size in MS Access that required us to split the CBDB data
into three separate Access ﬁles and will allow us to continue to use the PC-based
version of CBDB for the foreseeable future.
The code for CBDB has been rewritten so that all queries are performed by the SQL
Server database and the results then become available to the CBDB user interface.
There are only a few insigniﬁcant (we hope) diﬀerences in behavior, and in general,
queries should run more quickly on the SQL Server version.
Users who create their own queries with MS Access Query Builder may encounter a
few problems created by inconsistencies between the versions of SQL in Access and in
SQL Server. Advanced users should consider downloading and installing MS SQL
Server Management Studio, which gives on direct access to the SQL Server CBDB
database.
Build 
Design Change
In LookAtOﬃce, selecting an oﬃce now provides more information about the dynasty
of the selected oﬃce.
Build 
Design Change
In the Browser for individuals, using pinyin now has three options:
() lower case: it looks for the string anywhere in the name;
() upper case: it looks for the string only at the beginnings of words (“Hao” will select
both Zhang Hao and Hao Jing;
() string beginning with “!:” it looks only at the beginning of the surname (just “Hao
Jing”)

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



Build 
Bug Fixes:
. Added additional ﬁelds to ZZ_SCRATCH_BIOG_MAIN (these had been deleted
in recreating the SQL Server database from the Access database. I have added the ﬁelds
to the table in the SupplementalTablesSQL_Server.mdb ﬁle in the Migration subfolder.
. Removed all references to ZZZ_ALL_BIOG_ADDR, which has been replaced in
functionality by ZZZ_BIOG_MAIN
. Added the ﬁeld c_kin_rel_count to ZZ_SCRATCH_KINNET_EDGE.
. Because Access does not allow sorting of SQL Server tables opened as recordsets,
replaced all such recordset with sorted queries of the tables.
Build 
Design Change
. Created a ﬁlter-by-oﬃce-title function for selecting oﬃces
. In order to ﬁlter by oﬃce title, I added c_dy, c_dynasty, and c_dynasty_chn both to
ZZ_OFFICE_CODE and to Z_SCRATCH_DUMMY_OC.
Bug Fixes
. Cleared the scratch table for status codes when clicking on the highest tree level to
ﬁx a duplicate-value bug.
Build 
This is the initial version created by using the new CBDB dataset in Access. Since
some scratch tables are unique to the SQL Server version, I have created an additional
Access ﬁle SupplementalTablesSQL_Server.mdb with those tables, which need to be
included in the migration
CBDB Interface Version BH:
Changes:
This version dynamically constructs a kinship network for the selected person in the
browser.
CBDB Interface Version BG:
Changes:
. The ability to save and import lists of codes to be used in search has been added to
Query Associations, Query Oﬃce Holding, Query by Methods of Entry, Query
Status and Query Texts and Roles.
. A sequence ﬁeld for alternative names has been added in the browser.
. The default value for option "Restrict to Place" for the address ﬁlter in Query Social
Networks is now set to TRUE.
. A search by oﬃce option has been added to Query Oﬃce Holding

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



. The ability to select the biographical address codes one wants to use has been added to
Query by Place Associations.
. This version adds a command button to the browser that dumps the data on a person
to an HTML ﬁle.
. A hyperlink ﬁeld has been added to the Sources tab in the browser.
Bug Fixes:
. A bug in the form for selecting entry codes in Query by Methods of Entry in which the
[All] option copied over no records to the code search list has been ﬁxed.
. A bug in how the dynasties ﬁlter works in Query Pair-wise Associations and Query
by Methods of Entry has been ﬁxed.
CBDB Interface Version BF:
Changes:
. A Neoj export function has been added to all forms.
. There is an accumulation of bug ﬁxes in this release.
CBDB Interface Version BE:
Changes:
. LookAtTexts, a form for looking at people’s role in the production of texts, has been
added.
. LookAtGroupData, a form to quick collect data on groups of people, has been added.
Build 
Design Changes
. Made the changes necessary for users to export dynasty information from
LookAtKinship:
a. Added c_dy, c_dynasty, c_dynasty_chn, c_kin_dy, c_kin_dynasty, and
c_kin_dynasty_chn to ZZ_SCRATCH_KIN, ZZ_SCRATCH_KINNET,
ZZ_SCRATCH_KINNET_EDGE, ZZ_SCRATCH_GEPHI_NODE, and
ZZ_SCRATCH_GEPHI_NODE_DISTINCT
b. Added the new ﬁelds to the forms frmZZ_SCRATCH_KIN and
frmZZ_SCRATCH_KINNET
c. Revised the code for exporting to UCINet and Gephi
. Made the changes necessary for users to export dynasty information from
LookAtNetworks by revising the code for exporting to UCINet and Gephi

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



. Created the form LookAtGroupData.
a. Created tables Z_SCRATCH_DUMMY_OF,
Z_SCRATCH_DUMMY_ENTRY, Z_SCRATCH_DUMMY_BA
b. Added c_sequence, etc. to ZZ_SCRATCH_ENTRY
c. Created the (sub)forms:
ZZ_SCRATCH_GROUP_STATUS
ZZ_SCRATCH_GROUP_OFFICE
ZZ_SCRATCH_GROUP_ENTRY
ZZ_SCRATCH_GROUP_TEXT
ZZ_SCRATCH_GROUP_PLACE
d. Added ﬁelds to ZZZ_BIOG_ADDR_DATA
Created the table ZZ_SCRATCH_BIOG_ADDR_DATA
e. Added a routine to rebuild ZZZ_BIOG_ADDR_DATA to DATA
Build 
. A “Simplify Kinship Terms” option has been added to Query Kinship.
. A “Store Person ID” button has been added to the Browser, so that once the user has
selected a person, that person can be recalled for use in Query Kinship, Query Social
Networks, and Query Pair-wise Association by simply clicking on the “Recall
Person IDs” command button.
Build 
. Information on sources for records has been added to all the forms.
CBDB Interface Version BD:
Changes:
. The forms for selecting codes for association, entry into government service, oﬃce
titles, and status now support the multi-select option. The user can click on items in a
list to select those that are of interest.
. The user can now filter oﬃce titles by name when selecting oﬃce. This feature replaces
the earlier search function. Because the ﬁltering produces a list of oﬃces from diﬀerent
dynasties, the form now includes information about the dynasty associate with each
oﬃce name.
Build 
Design Change
. In LookAtOﬃce, selecting an oﬃce now provides more information about the
dynasty of the selected oﬃce.
. In the Browser for individuals, one can now search by Surname + Oﬃce Title in
either Chinese or in pinyin.
Build 
Design Change

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



In the Browser for individuals, using pinyin now has three options:
() lower case: it looks for the string anywhere in the name;
() upper case: it looks for the string only at the beginnings of words (“Hao” will select
both Zhang Hao and Hao Jing;
() string beginning with “!:” it looks only at the beginning of the surname (just “Hao
Jing”)
Build 
Bug Fixes
. Removed all references to ZZZ_ALL_BIOG_ADDR, which has been replaced in
functionality by ZZZ_BIOG_MAIN
. Added the ﬁeld c_kin_rel_count to ZZ_SCRATCH_KINNET_EDGE.
Build 
Bug Fixes
. Changed all references to TEXT_DATA to BIOG_TEXT_DATA in the Admin
Version of BD (the Used BC version had already been corrected).
 (Initial build for BD)
Design Change
. Created a ﬁlter-by-oﬃce-title function for selecting oﬃces
. In order to ﬁlter by oﬃce title, I added c_dy, c_dynasty, and c_dynasty_chn both to
ZZ_OFFICE_CODE and to Z_SCRATCH_DUMMY_OC.
Bug Fixes
. Cleared the scratch table for status codes when clicking on the highest tree level to
ﬁx a duplicate-value bug.
CBDB Interface Version BC:
Changes:
. Index Place is now handled the way Index Year is: both are added to BIOG_MAIN.
Index Year derives from birth year or death year (values in BIOG_MAIN), if they are
known, and, if not, from data elsewhere in the system. A source code for the index
year value is included in BIOG_MAIN. Similarly, Index Place is derived from data in
BIOG_ADDR_DATA, and the type code for Index Place is included in BIOG_MAIN.
As a result, users should use ZZZ_BIOG_MAIN instead of ZZZ_ALL_BIOG_ADDR
as the table for building queries about people
. Because scholars may prefer to use diﬀerent categories of place association to deﬁne the
Index Place, the BC version of CBDB includes a form accessible from the Navigation
Pane through which the user can change the hierarchy of places associations used to
deﬁne Index Place. (See the explanation under the heading “Navigation Pane.”
. Searching by dynasty behaves a bit diﬀerently. When one speciﬁes that the “from” and
“to” dynasties are the same, for example from Yuan 元 to Yuan, the search routines
now look for data with that particular code (Yuan = ) rather than for all dynasties that

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



have a temporal overlap with the selected dynasty (for instance, the Yuan [-],
overlaps with the Song dynasty [-]).
. To select codes for Association, Entry, Oﬃce, Place, and Status, CBDB now allow
the user to select more than one category at a time. As a result, the form behaves a bit
diﬀerently than before: the form always moves to the bottom of the list for any type in
the right-hand list box, so that the user will need to scroll up to see the entire list. Also,
while the search function still works, it does not highlight the target record.
. Various bugs were ﬁxed in the behavior of the forms. In particular, the address tree
now does a better job checking and sorting out subordinate relations between
administrative units.
CBDB Interface Version BB:
Changes:
. The Index Year has been signiﬁcantly revised. It now represents the birth year of the
individual. For individuals for whom the year of birth is not known, CBDB uses a
series of calculations based on other data (see the main text for a detailed explanation).
While CBDB has derived the index year for individuals in the past, it now uses derived
index years to derive yet more index years when it is possible. The Index Year Type
Code preserves the steps in the derivation. Please note that each iteration is yet more
inaccurate, but we believe that for running queries an index year that is oﬀ by a decade
is still better than having no index year at all.
. CBDB is now explicit that the address codes used for searches is an Index Place, a
construct analogous to Index Year. While the address codes used for searches always
have been assigned according to a hierarchy of place information, we believe that it is
better to be explicit about the status of index place. Even the “basic place aﬃliation”
(jiguan 籍貫) has problems in its historical interpretation, so that it always remains
useful to be circumspect about the assignment of index places. They are largely—but
not entirely—reliable.
. The approach to kinship searches has been revised. In concatenating kinship relations
in iterative searches, CBDB now automatically simpliﬁes eight relationships:
BB (brother’s brother)  Brother
ZB (sister’s brother)  Brother
BZ (brother’s sister)  Sister
ZZ (sister’s sister)  Sister
SB (son’s brother)  Son
SZ (son’s sister)  Daughter
DB (daughter’s brother)  Son
DZ (daughter’s sister)  Daughter
The eﬀect of this change is that the “collateral” parameter in the relationship decreases by
, so that the relationship (and the person identiﬁed through the relationship) may now
remain within the search limits speciﬁed by the user. Moreover, CBDB may identify

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



additional new relations of the newly permitted individual who would not have
appeared in the earlier version of the search.
. CBDB now has a MS Access “Look at Status” form to allow users to explore categories
of social distinction.
. All the MS Access query forms now permit using dynasty as a search parameter.
There remain many individuals for which CBDB lacks the data to assign an index year,
and while searches by dynasty deﬁne a rather broad time period, still it provides some
temporal speciﬁcation that we believe may prove useful.
CBDB Interface Version BA:
Changes:
. This release ﬁxes a major bug in the way that the XY count is counted when outputting
data to Gephi.
. This release adds the ability to export to Gephi in the Query Associations and Query
Pair-Wise Associations forms.
. The output to Gephi now includes the XY coordinates to allow users to take advantage
of the Geographic Distribution visualization add-on in Gephi.
CBDB Interface Version AZ:
Changes:
. Removal of the ability to ﬁlter by superior administrative unit when selecting places.
. Addition of the ability to include or disallow the inclusion of subordinate
administrative units when running queries that involve restrictions to speciﬁc places.
CBDB Interface Version AY:
This release is eﬀective as of --. Additions include:
, Michael Fuller updated address selector to allow users to ﬁlter place names by superior
administrative units.
, Edith Enright systematically reﬁned our label translations in Access query interface.
CBDB Data Release 20220312
Changes:
. [To be Added]
Build 
. Source information was added to ZZZ_NONKIN_BIOG_ADDR

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



CBDB Data Release 20211222
Changes:
1. 19,286 new persons and their 3,689 alternative names, 19,576 records of entry data from the
most complete list of civil service examination passers for the Song period.(Contributor:
Yang Xu)
2. 34,574 pairs of Ming and Qing dynasties kinship relationships and 15,312 records of
postings data in Ming Dynasty from the Academia Sinica Name Authority Database.
3. 3,267 new Koryo and Choson persons in Korea history with their 6,939 alternative names,
3,031 records of social status from Chronicles and Biographies of Choson. (Contributor:
Yafei Chen)
4. 22,363 records of data from the biography chapter from Ming and Qing local
gazetteers. (Contributor: CBDB Crowdsourcing group)
CBDB Data Release 20210525
Changes:
1. 17,000 new persons names and 10,486 social association for Ming and Qing dynasties from
Academia Sinica Name Authority Database.
2. 17,560 book titles from the Union Catalogue of Chinese Collectanea. (Contributor: Edith
Enright)
3. 20,678 entries, 2,180 alternative names and 16,020 postings information for the Ming and
Qing dynasties from local gazetteers.
4. 79 schools with 379 scholars belonging information. (Contributor: Mengxi Bi)
5. 600 new Ming and Qing persons with their data from the biography chapters in local
gazetteers were created by CBDB crowdsourcing contributors.
CBDB Data Release 20201110
Changes:
. The Index Year has been signiﬁcantly revised. It now represents the birth year of the
individual. For individuals for whom the year of birth is not known, CBDB uses a
series of calculations based on other data. While CBDB has derived the index year for
individuals in the past, it now uses derived index years to derive yet more index years
when it is possible. The Index Year Type Code preserves the steps in the
derivation. Please note that each iteration is yet more inaccurate, but we believe that
for running queries an index year that is oﬀ by a decade is still better than having no
index year at all.
.  garrison addresses for Ming dynasty. (Contributor: Ruoran Cheng)

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



.  social status records for thinkers. (Contributor: Mengxi Bi)
. Kinship and entry data mistakes were ﬁxed. (Contributors: Moqin Zhou, Song Chen)
. Added TEXT_INSTANCE_DATA table to collect version information of books.
(Contributors: Edith Enright, Song Chen)
. Change TEXT_DATA table name to BIOG_TEXT_DATA.
CBDB Data Release 20190424
Changes:
. , new social assignations for Tang and Five Dynasties from The communication
poems for Tang and Five Dynasties ﬁgures 唐五代人交往詩索引 with , new ﬁgures,
 new alternative names and  new kinship relationships etc. (contributor: Shuhua
Zhang 張淑華, Qiong Yang 楊瓊, Yongqin Li 李永琴, Chengguo Pei 裴成國)
. , new Tang addresses with , belongs data from General History of Chinese
Administrative Divisions 中國行政區劃通史. (contributor: Chao Wei 魏
超, Yifan Wang 王一帆, Yun Xing 邢雲, Wen Luo 駱文, Yuying Yuan 袁鈺瑩)
. , new address names with  new address belongs data for Jin Dynasty.
(contributor: Jingjia Qiu 邱靖嘉)
. , new oﬃce titles for Jin dynasty. (contributor: Jingjia Qiu 邱靖嘉)
CBDB Data Release 20180831
Changes:
. , new persons added with , entries jiguan data, , other entries, and ,
alternative names from the Name Authority Database at Academia Sinica;
. , person ID entries are mapped between CBDB and the Name Authority Database;
. Bugs were ﬁxed in pinyin entries and jiguan data etc.
CBDB Interface Version AX
This release is eﬀective as of --. Additions include:
. An important feature of kinship network algorithm was added. The duplicate records
for kinship relationships can be calculated correctly in this new algorithm.
. The query forms now have a Store Person IDs button to save the list of people created
in a query. That stored list of IDs can be recalled for use in other forms (where
relevant) through a new Recall Person IDs button.

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



CBDB AW Version:
This release is eﬀective as of --. Changes to the interface include:
. Michael Fuller created Relink Tables button on the Navigation panel as a new and
more eﬃcient mechanism to connect the user interface and the backend data which is
now in three separate ﬁles with name that indicate the date of release of the data, for
example CBDB_20190424_DATA1.mdb, CBDB_20190424_DATA2.mdb,
CBDB_20190424_DATA3.mdb.
. The database was thoroughly cleaned with the foreign key mechanism (contributor: Fu
Qunchao 傅群超);
20170829CBDB AV Version:
This release is eﬀective as of --. Additions include:
Data
. , new persons with , posting from local gazetteers;
.  Wuzhou jinshi degree holders from Song to Yuan dynasties;
.  ﬁgures with , kinship associations and  social associations from 全元文，
宋濂全集，遜志齋集 etc. (contributor: Yu Wen 于文);
Interface
. Michael Fuller and Chen Song has designed a Rerun function in Query Social
Networks to run queries using the results from the previous query.
. A new query function named Query Place Associations.
. The Oﬃce holding query form now allows the user to select both the place of the
posting and the index place of the oﬃce-holder.
20170424CBDB AU Version：
This release is eﬀective as of --. The Access interface has not changed: It
remains the AU version, but the data has been updated to the 2010425 release.
Additions include:
Data
.  Wuzhou ﬁgures with  biographical address data, , kinship relations and
other data from 全宋文 and 金華府志 (contributor : Du Feiran 杜斐然);
.  biographical addresses, , kinship relations,  postings and other data from 全
元文, 宋濂全集 and 藥房樵唱 (contributor : Yu Wen 于文);

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



. , ﬁgures were connected to the 明清人名權威檔案 database (contributor: Institute
of History and Philology, Academia Sinica);
. Tang bureaucratic tree added (contributor: Lik Hang Tsui 徐力恆)
. Fixed several mistakes in the bureaucratic and biographical data. Thanks to Chu
Pingtzu 祝平次 and Yang Guang 楊光's for reporting them.
20170310CBDB AU Version：
This release is eﬀective as of --. Additions include:
Data
. Data on , Tang ﬁgures and their , postings (source: 唐九卿考, 唐刺史考全編);
. , Tang personid were disambiguated (contributor: Wen Xin 文欣);
.  ﬁgures from 全元文 (contributor: Yu Wen 于文);
.  social status data from the Tang Dynasty (source: 唐五代人物傳記資料綜合索
引);
Interface
. Updated User Guide with English and Chinese versions (collated by Lik Hang Tsui 徐
力恆);
. Michael Fuller and Chu Ping-tzu rewrote several critical codes in CBDB Access
Database so that it can run on both -bit and -bit MS Windows;
. Michael Fuller added import person id list function to the Query Mediated Associations
interface.
20150202CBDB AS Version：
This release is eﬀective as of --. Additions to previous versions include:
Data
. , new persons and , new entry records of Ming and Qing Civil Service
Jinshi Degree holder (source: 明清人物題名碑);
. , Liao Dynasty oﬃce titles with Liao oﬃce tree (contributor: Cao Liu 曹流);
. Yuan oﬃce tree (contributor: Yi Ding 丁一, Yu Yue 于月);
. , Song Yuan Academies (contributor: Stephen P. Ford);
.  China emperors with their Posthumous Name (謚號), Honoriﬁc name (廟號);

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



Interface
. Revised Help Files.
. Place name ﬁlter to select a set of places for search
. Searching places based on geographic coordinates and proximity
20140310CBDB AR Version
This release, on date --, is built upon the Oct.   dataset. Major changes in
this version include:
Data
. , association data from Ming Biographical Materials (明人傳記資料索
引)(contributor: Qiaomei Tang 唐巧美 and Hui Cheng 程卉)
. , entry data from Ming civil service high degree holders (jinshi)
. , posting data from Ming civil service high degree holders (jinshi)
. , books from the Ming Qing Women Writers database (MQWW) and Ming
Biographical Materials (明人傳記資料索引)
. , address codes were updated (contributor: Yi Ding 丁一)
Interface
. This release also ﬁxed minor mistakes in the posted_to_oﬃce data and altname data in
the previous standalone database.
. In addition, new search and selection features have been added to the “LookAt” forms as
well as greater ﬂexibility in choosing whether to use index years. All the search
routines have been rewritten in SQL to greatly speed up the searches.
20131008CBDB AQ Version:
This release CBDBaq.mdb, on date --, is built upon the Sep.  
dataset. This version adds biographical data on , new men and women to the dataset
from the th to the th century, resulting in a total number of , individuals.
Major new additions include:
Data
. , principals and kin from Tang and Five Dynasties tomb biographies
. data on , civil service high degree holders (jinshi) and , of their kin from
 Ming dynasty examination years
. principals and kin from the  and  examinations

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



. selected biographical data from the Index of Ming Biographical Materials (明人傳記資料索
引)
. new data on the kin and social relations of women writers
. a variety of new and expanded code tables
. New data was developed through the contributions by and in collaboration with Profs.
Ping Yao, Nicolas Tackett, Liu Cheng-yun, and Grace Fong.
CBDB Patch:
[Important!] This is the patch for ﬁxing the TreeView selection problem. If your copy of
Access gives you an error when you try to select an oﬃce via the TreeView in
LookAtOﬃces (Query Oﬃce Holding) or select an association in
LookAtAssociations (Query Associations), this is because you do not have the correct
version of the "Microsoft Windows Common Controls . (SP)" added to your Visual
Basic environment.
We have prepared a document to walk you through the steps for ﬁxing this
problem. Please download this RAR ﬁle, unzip it, and follow the instructions in the PDF
ﬁle.
20130610CBDB AN Version:
This release, on date --, is built upon the June th  dataset which adds
biographical information for , new individuals to the January  dataset and
results in , as the total number of individuals. The following lists the details of the
addition:
Data
. Incorporated individuals, their kin and their associates from: the Ming Qing Women
Writers database (MQWW) (contributor: Professor Grace Fong and the CBDB Beida
editors), Quan Song Wen letters 全宋文書信 (contributor: Pingtzu Chu 祝平次, Beida,
Chen Liu 劉晨), Song Lian Quan Ji 宋濂全集 (contributor: Qiaomei Tang 唐巧美), Ji
Yun 紀昀’s associates (contributor: Clea Walford), Lu You 陸游’s associates
(contributor: Ziyu Zhou 周子鈺), and the  紹興十八年 exam passers
(contributor: Ziyu Zhou 周子鈺).
. Collaborated with IHP, Academia Sinica 中研院史語所 to incorporated the basic
information, alternative names, and entry data for , individuals from the 明清檔
案人名權威資料 database (system number  to ). It results in , new
individuals (because some of the them already exist in CBDB), , alternative
names, and , entry data.
. Collaborated with IHP to incorporate the basic biographical data, alternative names, and
address data for the , individuals in the Ming Ren Chuan Ji Zi Liao Suo Yin 明人

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



傳記資料索引, which has given us , new individuals, , alternative names,
and , biog address data.
. Added  new individuals who were the kin of the subjects in the biographies section
of Song Shi 宋史.
. Added , social association data from the Quan Song Wen letters 全宋文書信 and
, associations from Index to Song Biographical Materials 宋人傳記資料索引.
. Added , posting data from the Kyoto Tang database 唐代人物知識ベース and
, from Index to Yuan Biographical Materials 元人傳記資料索引.
Interface
. From the system side, in this release we also refactored a bunch of database tables (for
example, social institutions) in order to accommodate more detailed information about
one’s life and to enable such queries.
20120105CBDB AM Version:
This release, on date --, is built upon the January  dataset and the
CBDBal.mdb. Major changes in this version:
Data
. Addition of , Tang-Wudai, Yuan, Ming, and Qing oﬃce codes.
. Restructure of Social Institution tables:  code tables and  data table where we can
record the relation between a person and a social institution.
20120105CBDB AL Version:
This release CBDBal.mdb, on date --, is built upon the January 
dataset. It contains the biographical information for , historical ﬁgures in the
Chinese history. It also comes with the most up-to-date built-in queries, including the
latest revision of the Query Kinship and Query Social Network functionalities. Major
changes in this version:
Data
. It includes Han addresses (漢代地名) and a new Ethnicity/Tribe code table.
. It uses the new ethnicity coding for people.
Interface
. "Look up Data on an Individual 按人查詢" now accepts search via alternative names. E.g.
You are able to ﬁnd 蘇軾 via 蘇東坡 now.
. Bug ﬁxed in "Query Association 查詢社會關係" and improve the search performance.

Appendix D: Change Log for CBDB



NOTE: It is known that some of the CBDB built-in queries do not function on -bit
version of Microsoft Oﬃce . It is because the -bit Oﬃce is not compatible with
former VBA programs (see the oﬃcial annoucement here), which the CBDB queries
were built with. Therefore, if you are running a -bit Oﬃce, please consider to reinstall a -bit version Oﬃce  on your -bit Windows machine. (Yes, you can
still run the -bit Windows Operating System). Not sure which version are you
running? Follow this link.
20110705CBDB AF Version:
This release, on date --, is the last release for the July  dataset.
Data
. It does not add signiﬁcant new data to the July  release but some code tables have
been improved and duplicates have been removed.
Interface
NOTE: Some of the built in queries do not function on  bit machines. This will be
corrected in the near future.
. Bug ﬁxed for the "Enter Biographical Data 輸入傳記資料"
. Bug ﬁxed in the "Look up Data on an Individual 按人查詢" buttons.

